30075
The patient is a 8 y.o. male referred for a follow up evaluation in pediatric stroke clinic because of silent infarcts and moyamoya changes on MRI.  History is per mother and review of medical records made available.
The patient has sickle cell disease, and started chronic transfusion therapy after he developed persistently elevated MCA velocities on TCD. He was noted as he started school to have some new developmental concerns, including difficulty writing (regression) and need for an ARD meeting with difficulty paying attention. An MRI/MRA revealed chronic infarcts and evidence of Moyamoya. He saw me soon after, and after discussion with his hematologist we referred him for an angiogram to confirm the diagnosis of moyamoya and to neurosurgery for bypass surgery. The diagnostic angiogram was consistent with moyamoya, and he had bifrontal EDAS bypass after discussion in conference revealed that he had likely frontal hypoperfusion. He had no complications during surgery.
He has been doing well since discharge. He was previously getting in trouble for 'anger' episodes at school, but these seem to have improved with redirection. He is in summer school now due to missed school from transfusion therapy and surgery, but is performing at grade level in reading/writing/math. He has not had a seizure. He continues monthly transfusion therapy.
Past Medical History
•	Sickle-cell disease without crisis
•	Abnormal velocity blood flow on transcranial Doppler ultrasound in sickle cell disease patient
•	Clubbing of fingers
•	Enuresis
•	First degree atrioventricular block
•	Mild persistent asthma without complication
•	Still's murmur
•	Splenomegaly
•	Moyamoya disease
•	Aneurysm
Surgical History
•	CIRCUMCISION, PRIMARY
•	CRANIOTOMY ENCEPHALODURAL; EDAS procedure for Moya Moya in SCD
No Known Allergies
Medication
•	deferasirox (Jadenu) 360 MG tablet
Family History
•	Sickle cell trait	Mother
•	Sickle cell trait	Father
•	Sickle Cell Disease	Sister
Review of Systems
Constitutional: Negative for activity change and appetite change.
HENT: Negative for drooling and ear discharge.
Eyes: Negative for discharge and itching.
Respiratory: Negative for choking and chest tightness.
Cardiovascular: Negative for chest pain and leg swelling.
Gastrointestinal: Negative for abdominal distention.
Genitourinary: Negative for flank pain and hematuria.
Musculoskeletal: Negative for arthralgias and gait problem.
Skin: Negative for color change.
Allergic/Immunologic: Negative for environmental allergies and food allergies.
Neurological: Negative for light-headedness and headaches.
Hematological: Negative for adenopathy. Does not bruise/bleed easily.
Psychiatric/Behavioral: Positive for decreased concentration. No behavioral problems at this visit.
Physical Exam:
Visit Vitals
Wt	26.8 kg (59 lb 1.3 oz)
GEN: awake and alert, well-nourished, no acute distress
HEENT:  no clefts/pits/masses; no dysmorphic facial features, surgical scars on scalp well healed
CHEST: equal chest rise. Breathing non labored
HEART: acyanotic
EXTREMITIES: normal digits, no sacral pits or dimples
SKIN: no lesions, rash, cafe au lait spots
NEUROLOGICAL EXAMINATION:
MS: awake, alert, digit span 5 digits, able to do multiplication tables quickly with single digit numbers
CN II-XII:  intact
MOTOR EXAMINATION
Mass:               Normal
Tone:                normal
Strength:          5/5 in all limbs
DTR’s:   2+ in bilateral biceps, triceps, brachioradialis, ankles
Plantar responses:       Flexor bilaterally, no clonus
Sensation:        Intact
Gait/Station:    Normal
Cerebellum:     Normal
Results/Data:
Outside studies: MRI/MRA reviewed. He has multiple visible pial collaterals and narrowing of the right greater than left internal carotid arteries. Currently pending repeat CTP/MRI/MRA.
Assessment:
Stroke type: ischemic, 'silent infarcts'
Etiology: Moyamoya vasculopathy secondary to sickle cell
Mini-MACS: 1 - Handles objects easily and successfully. The child may have a slight limitation in performing actions that require precision and coordination between the hands but they can still perform them. The child may need somewhat more adult assistance when handling objects compared to other children of the same age.
GMFCS:1
PSOM: 1
Right sensorimotor : 0
Left sensorimotor : 0
Language Production: 0
Language comprehension: 0
Comprehension/Behavioral: 1
This is an 8 year old with sickle cell presenting with Moyamoya vasculopathy. He had bifrontal EDAS. Bifrontal was chosen due to the relative paucity of vasculature in his ACA region as compared to MCA.  Today, his anger problems, which he developed post-surgery, are improved. I again explain to mother what we know about Moyamoya as well as sickle cell disease with silent infarcts - it has a tendency to lower IQ over time, but bypass procedures and transfusion therapy are the known effective treatments. I'm glad he received it. He's scheduled for repeat MRI and perfusion imaging.
Plan:
Further workup: None, cause is known
Stroke prevention: transfusion therapy per hematology. Bypass has been performed. Will hold off on aspirin, I don't think it will help this patient.
Rehab: Continue 504 plan at school, he has no frank motor or speech impairments that could be helped with physical therapy
Re-imaging: Will follow up imaging currently scheduled. CT perfusion and MRI/MRA without contrast are scheduled at that time. Will make sure to coordinate this study with hepatic MRI per hematology.
Anticonvulsant therapy: Not indicated at this time.
Other Concerns: none
Follow up:  In 4-6 months
