30078
Interval events:
The patient is a 12 m.o. female referred here because of watershed infarcts that occurred.  History is per mother and review of medical records made available.
Since her last visit, pt has been doing very well per mother.  She has been crawling and recently began walking (at 10 months and 3 weeks).  Pt's mom notes that she is very social and reaches for people and objects.
Of note, Mom notes that the family was driving in a small town and was perpendicularly struck by another vehicle this past Fall.  Pt was initially scared and crying, but was easily redirectable and exhibited no increased somnolence, no seizure like activity, or any focal neurological deficits.
Also of note, records state pt is on Keppra 200mg BID, though Mom notes that she actually takes Keppra 180mg BID.  She has been off Phenobarbital since the summer.  Her first presentation, as noted below, was with encephalopathy, seizures, and cerebral infarctions. Encephalopathy was due to brain injury.
Past Medical History
Stroke and seizures as above
Intellectual disability (resolving)
Surgical History: None
Family History: Mother, father, and older sister are healthy
Medications:
Keppra 180mg BID
Clonazepam 0.25mg once as needed for seizures
Review of Systems
Constitutional:  Negative for activity change and appetite change.
HENT:  Negative for congestion and drooling.
Eyes:  Negative for discharge and redness.
Respiratory:  Negative for apnea and choking.
Cardiovascular:  Negative for leg swelling.
Gastrointestinal:  Negative for blood in stool and constipation.
Genitourinary:  Negative for hematuria and vaginal bleeding.
Skin:  Negative for color change and pallor.
Neurological:  Negative for seizures and facial asymmetry.
Hematological:  Negative for adenopathy.
Visit Vitals
Temp	36.5 °C (97.7 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	0.76 m (2' 5.92")
Wt	9.88 kg (21 lb 12.5 oz)
HC	43 cm (16.93")
BMI	17.11 kg/m²
BSA	0.46 m²
GEN: awake and alert, well-nourished, no acute distress
HEENT:  no clefts/pits/masses; no dysmorphic facial features
CHEST: equal chest rise. Breathing non labored
HEART: acyanotic
EXTREMITIES: normal digits, no sacral pits or dimples
SKIN: no lesions, rash, cafe au lait spots
NEUROLOGICAL EXAMINATION:
MS: awake, alert, appropriate interaction for age. Tracks faces, brings objects to mouth
CN II-XII:  intact
MOTOR EXAMINATION
Mass:               Normal
Tone:                Normal
Strength:          Normal, symmetric movement of L and R sides
DTR’s:   2/2 throughout
Plantar responses:       Plantar bilaterally
Sensation:        Intact
Gait:                 Wide based, appropriate for age, toddles with frequent falls
•	EEGREPORT	Comment: This is a normal ambulatory video EEG. No definite epileptiform discharges. No seizures.
MRI brain:
Previously demonstrated R MCA watershed infarct without residual encephalomalacia or gliosis
MRA brain: unremarkable

Echo: Normal study. Small PFO, which is normal for age.
Assessment:
Stroke type: watershed ischemic stroke
Etiology: Idiopathic. At this point, what I do know is that she had a hypoperfusion event leading to strokes that I still cannot explain adequately, EEG was normal (making underlying epilepsy as a cause of apnea very unlikely), and repeat MRI revealed no residual encephalomalacia at R MCA watershed infarct site.  This can be due to the fact that myelination has not been completed and may make it very difficult to see residual damage or because she had an incomplete stroke with no residual damage. She clinically is doing well at this point. She was encephalopathic and having seizures at my initial evaluation, but now appears much better. She remains at risk for hemiparesis or intellectual disability as she develops.
Mini-MACS: 1 - Handles objects easily and successfully. The child may have a slight limitation in performing actions that require precision and coordination between the hands but they can still perform them. The child may need somewhat more adult assistance when handling objects compared to other children of the same age.
GMFCS:Not done
PSOM -
Right sensorimotor :0
Left sensorimotor : 0
Language Production:0
Language comprehension:0
Comprehension/Behavioral:0
Total: 0
Plan:
Further workup: At this time, as she is clinically doing remarkably well and prior MRI from August and EEG were unremarkable, we will plan for no additional workup. Her CMA was abnormal but nonspecific.
Stroke prevention: no indication for aspirin. Counseled parents again on sleeping without objects in crib
Rehab: ECI referral/ PT/OT/ST sent. Not an I-acquire candidate (constraint induced movement therapy) as infarct was watershed
Re-imaging: only if clinical concern is noted
Anticonvulsant therapy: Given subtherapeutic dose (36mg/kg/day) and EEG normal; will plan to wean off Keppra entirely per schedule provided for Mom.  Educated Mom that pt likely carries a 10-20% risk of seizures in her lifetime with likely high incidence in the next year.  If she has another seizure while weaning Keppra, she will likely need to be restarted on the medications.
Other Concerns: none