30088
The patient is a 15 y.o. male referred for an evaluation in pediatric stroke clinic at the request of his neurosurgeon because of confirmed moyamoya syndrome.  History is per mother and review of medical records made available.
He was admitted last Spring after a car accident - though he suffered only a c-spine fracture (managed conservatively with no neurologic deficits) concussion and minor abrasions. He received a CTA brain and neck due to being in a high speed car crash and was incidentally found to have ICA narrowing suspicious for moyamoya syndrome. He has recovered and has never had a clinical stroke but has had intermittent follow up. He had an MRI/MRA done 3 months ago which on my review revealed no stroke or evidence of Ivy sign, but the moyamoya changes are redemonstrated. At his last visit with me he was endorsing frequent left sided headaches. I started him on aspirin and referred him for a diagnostic angiogram.
He had a diagnostic angiogram which confirmed moyamoya syndrome on the left, with delayed perfusion throughout the left MCA territory. He was discussed in pedi neurosurgery conference and plans made for indirect bypass. Patient has been on the ASA 81mg without any side effects.
Interval:
He underwent L temporal artery indirect bypass. He tolerated the procedure well with no complications. He has recovered well and is back in school now. He has no reported headaches or focal neurological deficits, including issues with gait, unilateral weakness, issues with speech, etc. He is not currently participating in sports or gym since his surgery. His main concern is when he can play soccer again. Parents have no concerns at this time. He continues to take ASA 81.
Past Medical History
•	C7 cervical fracture
Medication
•	aspirin 81 MG EC tablet
Review of Systems
Constitutional:  Negative for activity change and appetite change.
HENT:  Negative for congestion and dental problem.
Eyes:  Negative for discharge and itching.
Respiratory:  Negative for choking and chest tightness.
Endocrine: Negative for cold intolerance and heat intolerance.
Genitourinary:  Negative for difficulty urinating and dysuria.
Musculoskeletal:  Negative for arthralgias and back pain.
Allergic/Immunologic: Negative for environmental allergies and food allergies.
Neurological:  Negative for dizziness and facial asymmetry.
Hematological:  Negative for adenopathy. Does not bruise/bleed easily.
Psychiatric/Behavioral:  Negative for behavioral problems and confusion.
Physical Exam:
Visit Vitals
BP	119/74 (BP Location: Right arm, Patient Position: Sitting)
Pulse	75
Temp	36.5 °C (97.7 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	1.752 m (5' 8.98")
Wt	65.7 kg (144 lb 12.8 oz)
BMI	21.40 kg/m²
Smoking Status	Never
BSA	1.79 m²
General: Active, alert, well-appearing.
Head: Normocephalic and atraumatic.
Hearing: Grossly intact.
Speech: Adequate vocabulary, no impediments.
Nose: Pink nasal turbinates, septum is midline. No drainage or deformities.
Pharynx: Mouth pink, mucous membranes moist. No tonsillar enlargement, exudate, or erythema.
Lungs: Comfortable on room air.
Spine: Straight, no defects, no scoliosis.
Extremities: Full ROM, no deformities
Skin: Clear, no rashes or lesions.
Neurologic Exam:
Appropriately oriented to time, place, and person
Mood/Affect: quiet and reserved but will interact with prompting
Recent/remote memory appropriate for age
Attention span/concentration appropriate for age
Speech/Language: non-dysarthric, no impediments, fluent
Fund of knowledge appropriate for age
Visual fields full (CNII)
PERRL, extraocular movements full and intact (CN III, IV, VI)
Facial sensation normal (CN V)
Face appears and moves symmetrically (CN VII)
Hearing grossly intact bilaterally (CN VIII)
Palate elevates symmetrically (CN IX)
Shoulder shrug equal with good strength (CN XI)
Tongue protrusion midline, no evidence of tongue atrophy or fasciculations (CN XII)
Sensation grossly intact
Motor: normal bulk
Strength:
RUE- Deltoid 5/5, Triceps 5/5, Biceps 5/5, Wrist flexion 5/5, Wrist extension 5/5
LUE- Deltoid 5/5, Triceps 5/5, Biceps 5/5, Wrist flexion 5/5, Wrist extension 5/5
RLE- Iliopsoas 5/5, Knee extension 5/5, Knee flexion 5/5, Ankle dorsiflexion 5/5, plantarflexion 5/5
LLE- Iliopsoas 5/5, Knee extension 5/5, Knee flexion 5/5, Ankle dorsiflexion 5/5, plantarflexion 5/5
Tone: normal and symmetric throughout
Gait: normal casual and tandem/ appropriate for age; no ataxia
Coordination/Movements: normal FTN; no tremor or abnormal movements
Outside studies:  Review Prior CTA and MRI - no Ivy sign or infarction, but it looks like suzuki grade 2 or 3 on the left.
Diagnostic Angiogram: Occlusion of proximal L M1 with delayed reconstitution into M2 (suzuki stage 3)
TTE: small secundum ASD
Assessment:
Stroke type: vasculopathy - moyamoya syndrome on left. Right sided anterior circulation is normal
Etiology: under investigation
Mini-MACS: 1 - Handles objects easily and successfully. The child may have a slight limitation in performing actions that require precision and coordination between the hands but they can still perform them. The child may need somewhat more adult assistance when handling objects compared to other children of the same age.
GMFCS: Level 1: The patient can walk at home, school, outdoors and in the community. They can climb stairs without the use of a railing. The patient can perform gross motor skills such as running and jumping, but speed, balance and coordination are limited.
Pediatric Stroke Outcome Measure -
Right sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Left sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Production: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Comprehension: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Comprehension/Behavioral: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Total:  0
This is a 15 year old male with moyamoya syndrome on the left of unclear cause - current suspected etiologies are inherited vasculopathy (though he needs genetic testing) vs sporadic moyamoya. It is Suzuki stage 3. He underwent L temporal artery indirect bypass to decrease his risk of stroke in the future. He will continue on ASA 81 and we will plan to repeat imaging over the summer prior to him restarting sports.
Plan:
Further workup:
Repeat MRI Brain and MRA Brain/Neck in 3 months
Consider WES to evaluate for a genetic cause of his moyamoya syndrome ((CMA negative, WES pending)
Stroke prevention: Continue aspirin 81mg daily and told him he should drink 2L of fluid daily. No intense exercise participation for now. He is NOT cleared for track/soccer until repeat imaging is done and he is cleared by neurosurgery Rehab: not indicated
Re-imaging: Repeat MRI Brain and MRA Brain/Neck in 3 months
Anticonvulsant therapy: not needed
Follow up: in 4 months
