30095
The patient is a 5 y.o. female here for a follow up evaluation in pediatric stroke clinic at the request of her physician because of a right MCA stroke after an unrestrained motor vehicle accident.
Her previous history is as follows: She was brought to the ED from an outside hospital following an unrestrained MVA. CTA revealed right grade 2 ICA injury at the time, and follow up imaging demonstrated a right MCA stroke. Brain MRI demonstrated a right parietal SDH, right ICA grade 2 injury, right MCA stroke, and left BG traumatic IPH. She was put on lovenox for six weeks for treatment and subsequent imaging results showed improvement in caliber of the right ICA, and lovenox was discontinued. Patient was  discharged to rehab.
Since rehab, her father reports that the patient has been doing well and has been recovering her strength, though her improvements have started to slow down. She is no longer wearing a left lower leg brace for her healing fracture. Her left hand has not gotten significantly stronger since the last visit. She is also quicker to agitation since the accident and she is more disinhibited and distractible. She also is needing to relearn previously acquired developmental milestones, such as toilet training
Patient is pending OT/PT/ST which the sister reports is supposed to start in the next week or two. The patient is also attending preschool 5 days a week and will receive ST there.
She has discontinued her prior keppra. Her father states she takes 'some medicine' but he doesn't know what it is. He thinks she takes half a pill. He states he will call us with a picture of the bottle.
Past Medical History
•	Traumatic closed displaced fracture of shaft of right radius with ulna with routine healing
•	Fracture of distal end of tibia with fibula with routine healing, left, open type III
•	Closed nondisplaced fracture of left calcaneus with routine healing
•	Injury of internal carotid artery, right, sequela
•	Heart murmur
•	TBI (traumatic brain injury)
•	Liver laceration
Procedure
•	Closed reduction of closed right diaphyseal radius and ulna fracture
•	irrigation and debridement of the open tibia fracture and fibula fracture; Application of uniplanar external fixator spanning the ankle for the open tibia and fibula fracture
•	Removal of external fixator from left tibia and fibula, application of short leg cast
•	Peroneus longus and peroneus brevis tendon repair Complex wound closure left lower leg
•	I&D open fracture left distal tibia and fibula fracture and revision external fixation of the left open tibia and fibula fracture
No Known Allergies
Medication
•	baclofen (Lioresal) 10 MG tablet
•	clonazePAM (KlonoPIN) 1 MG tablet
•	Ex-Lax 15 MG chocolate chewable tablet
•	levETIRAcetam (Keppra) 100 MG/ML solution
•	methylphenidate (Ritalin) 10 MG tablet
Family History
•	No Known Problems
Review of Systems
Gen: No fever, no fatigue
ENT: No eye discharge, no rhinorrhea
Cardio: No palpitations, no chest pain
Pulm: No shortness of breath, no cough
GI: Occasional stomach upset with meals, no nausea
GU: No dysuria, no hematuria
Skin: No rashes, no bruises
Endo: No heat intolerance, no cold intolerance
MSK: No muscle pain, no joint pain
Neuro: See below
Physical Exam:
Visit Vitals
Temp	36.4 °C (97.5 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	1.08 m (3' 6.52")
Wt	17 kg (37 lb 7.7 oz)
BMI	14.57 kg/m²
Smoking Status	Never Assessed
BSA	0.71 m²
General: Active, alert, well-appearing.
Head: Normocephalic, well-healed scars along right upper forehead consistent with prior motor vehicle accident
Ears: Canals clear.
Eyes: PERRL, fundi benign, eyes aligned, sees small objects, follows face.
Hearing: Responds to sounds and commands.
Speech: appears normal.
Nose: Pink nasal turbinates, septum is midline. Not obstructed.
Pharynx: Mouth pink, mucous membranes moist. Clear, no drainage.
Lungs: Comfortable on room air.
Cardiovascular: Acyanotic, good capillary refill.
Abdomen: Soft, nontender, nondistended.
Spine: Straight, no defects.
Extremities: Full ROM including neck and spine, normal positioning, left lower extremity in brace.
Skin: No rashes, occasional well-healed scars consistent with MVA.
Neurologic Exam:
Appropriately oriented to time, place.
Recent/remote memory appropriate for age
Attention span/concentration impaired for age, she is easily distractible
Speech/Language: speaks fluently, non-dysarthric, no impediments
Visual fields full to confrontation; fundi benign bilaterally (CNII)
Pupils equal, round and reactive to light; extraocular movements full and intact (CN III, IV, VI)
Facial sensation and muscles of mastication normal (CN V)
Face appears and moves symmetrically (CN VII)
Hearing grossly intact bilaterally (CN VIII)
Tongue protrusion midline, no evidence of tongue atrophy or fasciculations (CN XII)
Sensation grossly intact
Motor: normal bulk
Strength:
RUE- Deltoid 5/5, Triceps 5/5, Biceps 5/5, Wrist flexion 5/5, Wrist extension 5/5
LUE- Deltoid 4/5, Triceps 5/5, Biceps 5/5, Wrist flexion 4/5, Wrist extension 4/5
RLE- Iliopsoas 5/5, Knee extension 5/5, Knee flexion 5/5, Ankle dorsiflexion 5/5, plantarflexion 5/5
LLE- Iliopsoas 5/5, Knee extension 5/5, Knee flexion 5/5, Ankle dorsiflexion not tested due to
Tone: now slightly increased in left upper extremity, mild spastic catch
Gait: no ataxia, walks with left sided swinging gate due to brace
Station: negative Romberg
Coordination/Movements: normal for age and symmetric; no tremor or abnormal movements
Assessment:
This is a 4 year old female with a prior R. ICA injury from a motor vehicle accident who has neurologic impairment from a right MCA embolic stroke, inferior frontal lobe contusions, and DAI grade I. She is recovering but still has some behavioral disinhibition and quickness to anger. Her left arm is still impaired, and she is no longer receiving therapy.
Stroke type: R MCA
Etiology: embolic from Right ICA injury
Mini-MACS: 2 - Handles most objects, but with somewhat reduced quality and/or speed of achievement. Some actions can only be performed and accomplished with some difficulty and after practice. The child may try an alternative approach, such as using only one hand. The child need adult assistance to handle objects more frequently compared to children at the same age.
GMFCS: Level 2: The patient can walk in most settings and climb stairs holding onto a railing. They may experience difficulty walking long distances and balancing on uneven terrain, inclines, in crowded areas or confined spaces. The patient may walk with physical assistance, a handheld mobility device or used wheeled mobility over long distances. The patient may have only minimal ability to perform gross motor skills such as running and jumping.
Pediatric Stroke Outcome Measure -
Right sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Left sensorimotor: 1 - moderate impairment, decreased function
Language Production: 0
Language Comprehension: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Comprehension/Behavioral: 1
Total: 1.5
Plan:
Further workup: No further workup. Cause is known
Stroke prevention: No prevention medication necessary
Rehab: PT, OT, SLP referrals sent. She needs at least twice weekly of each due to her stroke. Re-referrals sent. She may be a good intensive therapy candidate on a research basis in the future.
Re-imaging: 23 hour EEG completed and without any epileptiform discharges
Anticonvulsant therapy: No antiepileptics needed
Other Concerns: It is unclear what other medications she is taking - I instructed father to call us so that he can read the medication. It's very important that we know what she's taking.
Follow up: 3 months in clinic.

