30103
This is a 4 y.o. female referred for an initial evaluation in pediatric stroke clinic because of CVST found incidentally during hospital course. History is per parents and review of medical records made available.
The patient presented to the hospital in October after being pushed by a dog with a very mild head trauma. Initially the parents stated that they had noticed headache, lethargy, and right eye medial gaze after the fall. On my history in the hospital, they endorsed her eye had been turning in for about 5-6 weeks prior to coming to the hospital. During the hospital course she was incidentally found to have CVST for which she is currently taking Xarelto. Since being discharged from the hospital, she has been doing well besides falling last night and bruising the left side of her face near her ear. She lives at home with her 2 brothers and parents and does not receive PT/OT/ST. She is currently speaking with 3 word phrases that are sometimes understandable. She was scheduled to have a MRI to re-evaluate the CVST and determine if Xarelto will need to be continued, but the MRI has been postponed to an undetermined date. She was also seen by ophthalmology after discharge from the hospital and was found to have improved papilledema, and resolved esotropia and CN6 palsy.
Past Medical History
•	Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis
No past surgical history on file.
No Known Allergies
Current Outpatient Medications on File Prior to Visit
•	Xarelto 1 MG/ML reconstituted suspension
No family history on file. Negative family history for seizures, negative family history for stroke
Social History: Lives with 2 brothers, mother, and father. Does not attend school.
Review of Systems
Constitutional: Negative for activity change and appetite change
HENT: Negative for ear discharge and drooling
Eyes: Negative for watery eyes, negative for redness
Respiratory: Negative for cough and choking
Cardiovascular: Negative for fatigue with feeds and cyanosis
GI: Negative for diarrhea, negative for constipation
Skin: Negative for pallor and rash, positive for single bruise, about 1 cm, on left face
Neuro: Negative for seizures and facial asymmetry
Physical Exam:
Visit Vitals
BP	96/67 (BP Location: Left arm, Patient Position: Sitting)
Pulse	89
Temp	36.6 °C (97.9 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	1.012 m (3' 3.84")
Wt	15.3 kg (33 lb 12.8 oz)
BMI	14.97 kg/m²
Smoking Status	Never Assessed
BSA	0.66 m²
General: Active, alert, well-appearing
Head: Normocephalic
Eyes: PERRLA, tracking movements, no conjunctival injection, no scleral icterus
Hearing: Responds to sounds and commands.
Speech: 2 word phrases occasionally said during encounter
Lungs: Non-labored breathing
Cardiovascular: No peri-oral cyanosis
Extremities: Full ROM including neck and spine, normal positioning.
Skin: Bruise seen on left temporal scalp right above left ear, about 1 cm diameter, no other rashes, bruises, or bleeding seen
Neuro: DTR's 2/2, good tone, good strength, no ataxia.
MRV Brain wo Contrast: Impression:
The thrombus burden in the right transverse sinus has decreased and there is increased flow signal in the lumen. Residual thrombus is noted predominantly in the lateral half.
Hypoplastic left transverse sinus with artifactual absence of flow signal at the junction of the left transverse and sigmoid sinus.
MRI Brain w and wo Contrast: Right transverse sinus thrombosis, decreased from previous exam.
MRI Brain w and wo Contrast and MRV Brain wo Contrast: Impression:
1.  Thrombosis within the right transverse and proximal straight sinus (near the torcula).
2.  Indeterminate appearance of the left transverse sinus, more likely to be hypoplastic than thrombosed given the appearance of the postcontrast series.
3.  Normal MRI of the brain.
CT Brain wo Contrast: Impression:
Hyperdense material along the course of the straight and right proximal transverse sinuses concerning for sinus thrombosis. Further evaluation with MR venogram is recommended.
Assessment:
Stroke type: CVST
Etiology: Unknown
Mini-MACS: 1 - Handles objects easily and successfully. The child may have a slight limitation in performing actions that require precision and coordination between the hands but they can still perform them. The child may need somewhat more adult assistance when handling objects compared to other children of the same age.
GMFCS: Level 1: The patient can walk at home, school, outdoors and in the community. They can climb stairs without the use of a railing. The patient can perform gross motor skills such as running and jumping, but speed, balance and coordination are limited.
Pediatric Stroke Outcome Measure -
Right sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Left sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Production: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Comprehension: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Comprehension/Behavioral: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Total: 0
This is a 4 year old girl who presented with idiopathic CVST in the right transverse sinus. She also had a congenitally hypoplastic left transverse sinus. She had what sounds like a right 6th nerve palsy for about a month prior to being evaluated for headache. She has responded well to eliquis, but now needs repeat MRV to evaluate thrombus burden. She hasn't gone as previously scheduled.
Plan:
Further workup: Further hypercoagulable workup after stopping anticoagulation per hematology
Stroke prevention: Xarelto - will need repeat MRI/MRV to determine when we can stop her xarelto
Rehab: None
Re-imaging: Schedule MRI/MRV to see changes since last imaging. I give parents information on scheduling, with instructions in Spanish.
Anticonvulsant therapy: None
Other Concerns: Will continue Xarelto and will re-evaluate the need for continued Xarelto after new imaging is performed
Follow up: 3 months