30075
Dx: Moyamoya
HPI: This is a 9 y.o. male referred for a follow up evaluation in pediatric stroke clinic at the request of his physicians because of silent infarcts and moyamoya syndrome secondary to sickle cell disease.  History is per mother and review of medical records made available.
The patient has sickle cell disease, and started chronic transfusion therapy in two summers ago after he developed persistently elevated MCA velocities on TCD. He was noted as he started schoo then to have some new developmental concerns, including difficulty writing (regression) and need for an ARD meeting with difficulty paying attention. An MRI/MRA revealed chronic infarcts and evidence of Moyamoya. He saw me in then, and after discussion with his hematologist, we referred him for an angiogram to confirm the diagnosis of moyamoya and to neurosurgery for bypass surgery. The diagnostic angiogram was consistent with moyamoya, and he had bifrontal EDAS bypass last Winter after discussion in conference revealed that he had likely frontal hypoperfusion. He had no complications during surgery. He did well after surgery and had no strokes. He continues monthly transfusion therapy.
Mom is here today because of continued, and worsening, behavioral problems with problems in school. She states he still gets good marks in reading, and can perform math in his head, but has trouble explaining his work and is failing classes. He also is angry and impulsive - his mother states he is now seen as a 'bully' at school and has been pushing or yelling at other children. His teachers are frustrated with his behavior and his mother is as well.
Past Medical History
•	Sickle-cell disease without crisis
•	Clubbing of fingers
•	Mild persistent asthma without complication
•	Murmur
•	Moyamoya disease
•	Transfusion hemosiderosis
•	On hydroxyurea therapy
•	Long-term current use of deferasirox
Surgical History
•	CIRCUMCISION, PRIMARY
•	CRANIOTOMY ENCEPHALODURAL
•	PORTACATH PLACEMENT
Medication
•	Deferasirox 180 MG pack
•	hydroxyurea (Siklos) 1000 MG tablet
•	lidocaine-prilocaine (Emla) 2.5-2.5 % cream
•	Vitamin D, Ergocalciferol, 50000 units capsule
Review of Systems
Constitutional: Negative for activity change and appetite change.
HENT: Negative for drooling and ear discharge.
Eyes: Negative for discharge and itching.
Respiratory: Negative for choking and chest tightness.
Cardiovascular: Negative for chest pain and leg swelling.
Gastrointestinal: Negative for abdominal distention.
Genitourinary: Negative for flank pain and hematuria.
Musculoskeletal: Negative for arthralgias and gait problem.
Skin: Negative for color change.
Allergic/Immunologic: Negative for environmental allergies and food allergies.
Neurological: Negative for light-headedness and headaches.
Hematological: Negative for adenopathy. Does not bruise/bleed easily.
Psychiatric/Behavioral: Positive for decreased concentration. Negative for behavioral problems at this visit.
Physical Exam:
Visit Vitals
BP	101/62 (BP Location: Right arm, Patient Position: Sitting)
Pulse	77
Temp	36.8 °C (98.3 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	1.365 m (4' 5.75")
Wt	29.4 kg (64 lb 12.8 oz)
BMI	15.77 kg/m²
Smoking Status	Never Assessed
BSA	1.06 m²
GEN: awake and alert, well-nourished, no acute distress
HEENT:  no clefts/pits/masses; no dysmorphic facial features, surgical scars on scalp well healed
CHEST: equal chest rise. Breathing non labored
HEART: acyanotic
EXTREMITIES: normal digits, no sacral pits or dimples
SKIN: no lesions, rash, cafe au lait spots
NEUROLOGICAL EXAMINATION:
MS: awake, alert, digit span 5 digits, able to do multiplication tables quickly with single digit numbers
Answers yes/no questions. Knows date.
CN II-XII:  intact
MOTOR EXAMINATION
Mass:               Normal
Tone:                normal
Strength:          5/5 in all limbs
DTR’s:   2+ in bilateral biceps, triceps, brachioradialis, ankles
Plantar responses:       Flexor bilaterally, no clonus
Sensation:        Intact
Gait/Station:    Normal
Cerebellum:     Normal
Outside studies:  MRI/MRAreviewed. Has watershed T2/FLAIR signal changes in bilateral, worse on right. Slight increase intensity of right frontal white matter FLAIR hyperintensity.
Assessment:
Stroke type: ischemic, 'silent infarcts'
Etiology: Moyamoya vasculopathy secondary to sickle cell
Mini-MACS: 1 - Handles objects easily and successfully. The child may have a slight limitation in performing actions that require precision and coordination between the hands but they can still perform them. The child may need somewhat more adult assistance when handling objects compared to other children of the same age.
GMFCS:1
PSOM: 1
Right sensorimotor : 0
Left sensorimotor : 0
Language Production: 0
Language comprehension: 0
Comprehension/Behavioral: 1
This is a 9 year old with sickle cell presenting with Moyamoya vasculopathy. He had bifrontal EDAS. Bifrontal was chosen due to the relative paucity of vasculature in his ACA region as compared to MCA.  Today, his anger problems, are worsening and so is his performance at school. I discussed with mother what we know about Moyamoya as well as sickle cell disease with silent infarcts - it has a tendency to lower IQ over time, but bypass procedures and transfusion therapy are the known effective treatments. I'm glad he received it.
There are several possible explanations for his behavioral changes. The one I want to rule out is to continue 'silent' infarcts leading to behavioral regression. I requested MRI/MRA to look for signs of worsening white matter injury.
It is also possible that some of these changes are behavioral/psychiatric, so I've referred him to see pediatric psychiatry. He will also benefit from his neuropsych testing in the summer.
Plan:
Further workup: None, cause is known
Stroke prevention: transfusion therapy. Bypass has been performed. Will hold off on aspirin, I don't think it will help this patient.
Rehab: Continue 504 plan at school, he has no frank motor or speech impairments that could be helped with physical therapy
Re-imaging: MRI/MRA without anesthesia, requested ASAP imaging.
Anticonvulsant therapy: Not indicated at this time.
Other Concerns: to pedi psychiatry for evaluation for behavioral problems.
Follow up:  In 3 months
