30078
Dx: Ischemic stroke
HPI: Per patient's mother she is now weaned off the Keppra and remains seizure free. She denies any staring or shaking episodes. Mom does not notice an asymmetry in strength. She goes to daycare and is very social. She is meeting her language milestones and says more than 3 words. She is feeding herself, scribbling, walking, running with no issues. They have her prior klonopin prescription. She is not participating therapies. Mother concerned due to patient's maternal uncle being diagnosed with Becker's muscular dystrophy.
Per last visit: Since her last visit, pt has been doing very well per mother.  She has been crawling and recently began walking (at 10 months and 3 weeks).  Pt's mom notes that she is very social and reaches for people and objects.
Also of note, records state pt is on Keppra 200mg BID, though Mom notes that she actually takes Keppra 180mg BID.  She has been off Phenobarbital since June.  Her first presentation, as noted below, was with encephalopathy, seizures, and cerebral infarctions. Encephalopathy was due to brain injury.
Initial HPI: The patient is an 18 m.o. female referred for an initial evaluation in pediatric stroke clinic at the request of her physicians because of watershed infarcts that occurred.  History is per mother and review of medical records made available. Here is my initial history:
"This is a 1 month old female with no PMH who presents to EC with 1-day history of first-time seizure activity. Since last night patient has had several episodes of unresponsiveness and abnormal movements concerning for seizure. Video captured by mom's cellphone shows two episodes captured at home. The first episode showed the patient with eyes open, gaze midline, patient staring ahead with clonic-appearing activity of legs (baby was swaddled, but can see rhythmic jerking of legs). In the second video mother showed the neurology team, the patient again is unresponsive, eyes open and staring straight ahead, and has clonic activity of both arms and legs. The second video was recorded this morning and at that time the parents decided to come to a hospital. The episodes at home lasted between 30 seconds -2 minutes. Parents have never noted any prior similar episodes of limb jerking or staring/unresponsiveness. Overall the patient has had no medical problems, had uncomplicated prenatal and birth history and no other recent concerns for illness such as fevers, cough, nasal congestion. Parents think she may have been less hungry yesterday but had same amount of wet diapers. No recent travel or sick contacts. Paternal grandmother has epilepsy diagnosis with first seizure at age six. We spoke with grandmother by phone who told us she has a chromosomal abnormality that causes her epilepsy and agreed to request/send her records as it may be relevant for the patient.
While in our EC, patient appeared to have another seizure around 11:30 AM. Seizure activity was ongoing so ativan was given at 5 min, another push of ativan again at 10 min along with phenobarb 10 mg/kg loading dose at which point seizure stopped. Keppra 30 mg/kg loading dose also administered. Has also received empiric acyclovir in EC."
As the patient presented with watershed infarcts which were unexplained, she underwent evaluation by the child abuse pediatrics team, which found no evidence of child abuse, including skeletal survey. In the hospital, the patient had seizures for about 48 hours on EEG which had to be controlled with keppra and phenobarbital. MRI demonstrated small, predominantly right PCA/MCA watershed ischemic changes, and echo was normal. The patient recovered clinically, and was feeding well by the time she was ready for discharge. Vessel imaging was obtained with both MRA and CTA, which was normal except for poorly visualized posterior cerebral arteries due to technical issues.
Past Medical History
Stroke and seizures as above
Intellectual disability (resolving)
Medications:
Keppra 180mg BID
Clonazepam 0.25mg once as needed for seizures
Review of Systems
Constitutional:  Negative for activity change and appetite change.
HENT:  Negative for congestion and drooling.
Eyes:  Negative for discharge and redness.
Respiratory:  Negative for apnea and choking.
Cardiovascular:  Negative for leg swelling.
Gastrointestinal:  Negative for blood in stool and constipation.
Genitourinary:  Negative for hematuria and vaginal bleeding.
Skin:  Negative for color change and pallor.
Neurological:  Negative for seizures and facial asymmetry.
Hematological:  Negative for adenopathy.
Visit Vitals
Temp	36.3 °C (97.4 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	0.82 m (2' 8.28")
Wt	11.7 kg (25 lb 12.8 oz)
HC	44 cm (17.32")
BMI	17.41 kg/m²
BSA	0.52 m²
GEN: awake and alert, well-nourished, no acute distress
HEENT:  no clefts/pits/masses; no dysmorphic facial features
CHEST: equal chest rise. Breathing non labored
HEART: acyanotic
EXTREMITIES: normal digits, no sacral pits or dimples
SKIN: no lesions, rash, cafe au lait spots
NEUROLOGICAL EXAMINATION:
MS: awake, alert, appropriate interaction for age. Tracks faces, brings objects to mouth
CN II-XII:   PEERL, EOMI, Face symmetric, tongue midline.
MOTOR EXAMINATION
Mass:               Normal
Tone:                Normal
Strength:          Normal, symmetric movement of L and R sides
DTR’s:   2/2 throughout
Plantar responses:       Plantar upgoing bilaterally
Sensation:        Intact
Gait:                 Wide based, appropriate for age
Results/Data:
EEGREPORT	Comment: This is a normal ambulatory video EEG, No definite epileptiform discharges, No seizures
MRI brain: Previously demonstrated R MCA watershed infarct without residual encephalomalacia or gliosis
MRA brain: unremarkable
Echo: Normal study. Small PFO, which is normal for age.
Assessment:
Stroke type: watershed ischemic stroke
Etiology: Idiopathic. At this point, what I do know is that she had a hypoperfusion event leading to strokes that I still cannot explain adequately, EEG was normal (making underlying epilepsy as a cause of apnea very unlikely), and repeat MRI revealed no residual encephalomalacia at R MCA watershed infarct site.  This can be due to the fact that myelination has not been completed and may make it very difficult to see residual damage or because she had an incomplete stroke with no residual damage. She clinically is doing well at this point. She was encephalopathic and having seizures at my initial evaluation, but now appears much better. She remains at risk for hemiparesis or intellectual disability as she develops. She is now off of Keppra and remains seizure free, meeting language and motor milestones.


Mini-MACS: 1 - Handles objects easily and successfully. The child may have a slight limitation in performing actions that require precision and coordination between the hands but they can still perform them. The child may need somewhat more adult assistance when handling objects compared to other children of the same age.
GMFCS:Not done
PSOM -
Right sensorimotor :0
Left sensorimotor : 0
Language Production:0
Language comprehension:0
Comprehension/Behavioral:0
Total: 0
Plan:
Further workup: At this time, as she is clinically doing remarkably well and prior MRI and EEG were unremarkable, we will plan for no additional workup. Her CMA was abnormal but nonspecific. Discussed with mother that Becker's is x-linked and usually does not occur in females, but they can be carriers. Mother to get tested and we will decide if the patient needs testing.
Stroke prevention: no indication for aspirin. Counseled parents again on sleeping without objects in crib (though they hadn't been doing this before)
Rehab: No need for therapies at this time. Mother is OT.
Re-imaging: only if clinical concern is noted
Anticonvulsant therapy: Off of Keppra, continue to monitor off seizure medications. Seizure precautions provided to mom who knows to call EMS if seizures were to recur.
Other Concerns: none
Follow up:  In 6 months in clinic
