30083
The patient is a 2 m.o. male referred for an initial evaluation in pediatric stroke clinic because of perinatal stroke and neonatal seizures. History is per mother and review of medical records made available. Seizure-like activity was first observed in the NICU. He was noted to have decorticate and decerebrate posturing, which prompted neurology consult. cvEEG demonstrated bilateral multifocal epileptogenicity and he was started on Phenobarbital 5 mg/kg/day. MRI brain showed tiny foci of infarcts in the deep white matter bilaterally and the rostrum of the corpus callosum. MRA/MRV brain and MRI spine were unremarkable.
He is accompanied by his mother today. He is still on phenobarbital 5mL daily. A repeat EEG was recommended and is scheduled. Today, mom says he is doing well and she has no neurologic concerns. She has not noticed any seizure-like activity like she saw in the NICU. He is eating and sleeping well and developing appropriately. Mom says he tracks her, smiles and can hold his head up during tummy time. She does express concern about his positional plagiocephaly and would like to have PT/OT. She has been in contact with ECI, but the referral hasn't gone through yet.
Past Medical History
Born at 39wks with respiratory distress. 3.0 ETT did not pass due to congenital subglottic stenosis. He received excision and multiple balloon dilations with ENT and intubation. He was also found to have liver cyst, imperforate anus s/p ostomy creation, seizure-like activity and stroke.
Past Medical History:
Diagnosis
•	Imperforate anus
Past Surgical History:
•	BRONCHOSCOPY RIGID / FLEXIBLE
•	CIRCUMCISION, PRIMARY
•	COLOSTOMY
•	EXPLORATORY LAPAROTOMY
•	LARYNGOSCOPY
•	NECK EXPLORATION
No Known Allergies
Medication
•	PHENobarbital 20 MG/5ML elixir
Family History: no known problems
Review of Systems
Constitutional:  Negative for activity change, appetite change and fever.
HENT:  Negative for congestion, rhinorrhea and trouble swallowing.
Eyes:  Negative for discharge and redness.
Respiratory:  Negative for cough and choking.
Cardiovascular:  Negative for fatigue with feeds and cyanosis.
Gastrointestinal:  Negative for abdominal distention.
Skin:  Negative for rash and wound.
Neurological:  Negative for seizures and facial asymmetry.
Hematological:  Does not bruise/bleed easily.
Physical Exam:
Visit Vitals
Temp	36.5 °C (97.7 °F) (Temporal)
Smoking Status	Never Assessed
General: Active, alert, well-appearing.
Head: positional plagiocephaly on posterior R skull, anterior fontanelle is open, soft, and flat
Eyes: lids open, eyes clear without drainage, conjugate gaze
Ears: normally set, no pits and no tags
Nose: nares patent
Oropharynx: palate intact, moist mucous membranes
Chest: no retractions and no tachypnea
Cardiac: acyanotic
Abdomen: soft, non-tender, non-distended, ostomy in place
Musculoskeletal: moves all extremities normally, no deformities or dysmorphic features
Skin: clear, no birthmarks
Neurologic: symmetric facies, symmetric Moro, hypotonic reflexes noted in upper extremities bilat
Neurologic Exam: Limited 2/2 patient age
Appropriately engaged during exam, eyes tracking
Visual fields full to confrontation; fundi benign bilaterally (CNII)
Pupils equal, round and reactive to light and accommodation; extraocular movements full and intact (CN III, IV, VI)
Face appears and moves symmetrically (CN VII)
Hearing grossly intact bilaterally (CN VIII)
Palate elevates symmetrically (CN IX)
Motor: normal bulk
Tone: slightly decreased tone in upper extremities bilaterally
•	Test Name	CMA 	LOSS- HETEROZYGOTE (AUTOSOMAL RECESSIVE)
Outside studies:
MRI Brain: Tiny infarcts in deep white matter bilaterally and the rostrum of the corpus callosum
EEG: Mild encephalopathy, multifocal epileptogenicity, no seizures
Assessment:
Stroke type: Perinatal, periventricular
Etiology: perinatal critical illness
Mini-MACS: 1 - Handles objects easily and successfully. The child may have a slight limitation in performing actions that require precision and coordination between the hands but they can still perform them. The child may need somewhat more adult assistance when handling objects compared to other children of the same age.
GMFCS: not yet appropriate
PSOM: currently 0
This is a 2mo M w/ complex PMH as detailed above, seen in stroke clinic today for follow-up of perinatal stroke and seizures noted in the NICU. He is doing well with no noted seizure-like activity from mom. She feels he is developing appropriately, per social and motor milestones. He is noted to have positional plagiocephaly and mild hypotonia in the upper extremities bilaterally. We encourage involvement in PT/OT for development. We will follow-up in 2-3 months.
Plan:
Further workup: Repeat EEG
Stroke prevention: None
Rehab: ECI Referral (PT/OT/ST)
Re-imaging: None
Anticonvulsant therapy: Phenobarbital 5mL every day (2.75mg/kg/d)
Other Concerns: Will continue to follow with cardio, ENT, surgery
Follow up: at about 5-6 months of life