30087
Chief Complaint: Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis
History of Presenting Illness:  Patient is a 12 month old male with PMH of TGA which was corrected with arterial switch procedure. Shortly after extubation on he had a staring episode and a head U/S was ordered concerning for superior sagittal sinus thrombosis. A MRV was ordered which redemonstrated the thrombus (medial right transverse sinus) and anticoagulation was started. The patient was started on keppra as his EEG showed some parietal sharp waves.
At his last visit, he was doing well. Repeat MRV was deferred because prior vessel imaging demonstrated clot resolution, and at his age AC would not be initiated anyway. He was sent for a repeat EEG, which was normal. Keppra was subsequently stopped.
Since that visit, he visited with hematology, whose thrombophilia workup was negative and they were advised that they need not follow up unless there are specific concerns. He saw his cardiologist and they were informed that he should continue with propranolol at the current dose until he grows out of it.
Otherwise he continues to do well. He is climbing to a stand, cruising along surfaces, and putting two words together.
ROS:
GEN: No fever, no fatigue
EYES: No eye redness, no eye secretions
ENT:  No decreased hearing, nose bleeding
GI:  No vomiting, diarrhea
NEURO: see HPI
ENDO:  No history of thyroid or growth problems
SKIN: No rash, no lesions
MUSC:  no history of scoliosis or contractures
Past Medical History:
Diagnosis	Date
•	37 weeks gestation of pregnancy
•	Acute kidney injury
•	Anemia
•	Anemia
•	Bilateral pneumothorax
•	Microcephaly
•	MRSA colonization
•	Respiratory distress
•	Retained suture
•	SVT (supraventricular tachycardia)
•	Thrombosis, superior sagittal sinus
•	Transposition of great vessels
•	Vocal cord paralysis
Medications:
•	levETIRAcetam (Keppra) 100 MG/ML solution
•	propranolol (Inderal) 20 MG/5ML solutionPhysical Exam:
Vitals: Temp:	36.7 °C (98 °F)
GEN: awake and alert, well-nourished, no acute distress
HEENT:  no dysmorphic facial features
CHEST: breathing comfortably, symmetric chest expansion, no increased work of breathing
HEART: no cyanosis, peripheral pulses intact
ABDOMEN: soft, nondistended
EXTREMITIES: normal digits, no sacral pits or dimples
SKIN: no lesions, rash, cafe au lait spots or hypopigmented macules
NEUROLOGICAL EXAMINATION:
Mental Status: alert, interactive, no acute distress
Cranial Nerves: EOMI, no facial asymmetry, facial sensation intact, hearing intact
Motor: is normal for age, climbs to a stand without difficulty. Moves all extremities equally.
Tone: is normal and bulk is normal
Sensation: Intact to light touch bilaterally in UE and LE
Reflexes:
RUE: Biceps 2+/4, Triceps 2+/4, Brachioradialis 2+/4
LUE:  Biceps 2+/4, Triceps 2+/4, Brachioradialis 2+/4
RLE: Patellar 2+/4
LLE: Patellar 2+/4
Plantar Reflex response: Downgoing bilaterally
Diagnostic Studies:
EEG: Sharp waves, multi focal, Intermittent slow, right parietal, left parietal
EEG: This awake and sleep EEG is within normal limits.
Neuroimaging:
Head U/S: IMPRESSION: No residual thrombosis seen in the superior sagittal sinus. No parenchymal changes or evidence of hemorrhage.
Assessment:
This is a 12 month old male who developed a CVST in the setting of recovery from dTGA surgery. He continues to do well. His keppra was discontinued since his last visit and his mother reports no seizure-like activity. He is growing along his growth curve and meeting milestones appropriately at this time.
Recommendations:
-Will order PT, OT, SLP evaluation.
-Recommend early childhood intervention therapy evaluation.
