30084
Dx:  Moyamoya syndrome
The patient is a 19 y.o. male referred for a follow up evaluation in pediatric stroke clinic at the request of his physicians because a left anterior temporal infarct, moyamoya syndrome and hospital stay.  History is per father and review of medical records made available. I saw this patient in the hospital.
The patient started having migraines at 16 years of age, and was diagnosed with moyamoya. Notably, the patient has had a left PCA stroke previously leading to a left temporal artery bypass and 4 burr holes done last Fall. He was discharged home. Later, patient was feeling "abnormal and felt like something was off" during the day. He vomited once at home, and tried to rehydrate but was unable to. His parents brought him to the ER. Once at the ED, a code stroke was called with the patient having aphasia as well as an episode of syncope. MRI revealed and acute left temporal stroke with a left temporal extra axial fluid collection. The patient was admitted to the hospital for 1.5 weeks and he was treated for dehydration as well as dexamethasone for vomiting and dehydration. In the hospital, his principal complaint was anger management and a mixed receptive + expressive aphasia with frequent paraphrasic errors and word finding difficulty.
He has since recovered greatly, and had a bypass on the right side this Spring. He did well with that bypass with no new stroke symptoms. Since that time, he had 1 ER visit for headache but was discharged home after a CT brain was negative for new infarct and his headache resolved. He says his speech and vision continue to improve, but he still has trouble with math particularly, such as organizing values. He's planned for an MRI + conventional angiogram in the Fall. I also sent a WES on him to look for any causes of stroke, which revealed a microduplication that is likely incidental.
Past Medical History
•	Moyamoya disease
•	Migraines
•	Stroke
Surgical History
•	BURR HOLE FOR SUBDURAL HEMATOMA
•	LUMBAR PUNCTURE
•	ORCHIECTOMY
•	OTHER - LEGACY DATA VALUE SEE COMMENTS
•	TUNNELED VENOUS PORT PLACEMENT
Medication
•	acetaminophen (Tylenol) 325 MG tablet
•	aspirin 325 MG tablet
•	FLUoxetine (PROzac) 40 MG capsule
Review of Systems
Constitutional:  Negative for activity change and fever.
HENT:  Negative for congestion, hearing loss and sore throat.
Eyes:  Negative for discharge and itching.
Decreased right visual acuity
Respiratory:  Negative for apnea and shortness of breath.
Cardiovascular:  Negative for chest pain and leg swelling.
Gastrointestinal:  Negative for abdominal distention, constipation and diarrhea.
Endocrine: Negative for polydipsia and polyuria.
Genitourinary:  Negative for decreased urine volume, difficulty urinating and dysuria.
Musculoskeletal:  Negative for back pain, gait problem and joint swelling.
Skin:  Negative for color change and pallor.
Neurological:  Positive for headaches. Negative for dizziness, tremors, facial asymmetry, speech difficulty and weakness.
Hematological:  Negative for adenopathy. Does not bruise/bleed easily.
Psychiatric/Behavioral:  Negative for agitation, behavioral problems and confusion.
Physical Exam:
Visit Vitals
BP	119/74 (BP Location: Right arm, Patient Position: Sitting)
Pulse	60
Temp	36.6 °C (97.9 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	1.77 m (5' 9.69")
Wt	81.6 kg (179 lb 14.3 oz)
BMI	26.05 kg/m²
Smoking Status	Never
BSA	2 m²
General: Active, alert, well-appearing.
Head: Normocephalic and atraumatic.
Hearing: Grossly intact.
Speech/Language: adequate vocabulary, appropriate conversational language and articulation
Nose: No drainage or deformities.
Pharynx: Mouth pink, mucous membranes moist.
Lungs: Comfortable on room air.
Cardiovascular: Acyanotic, good capillary refill.
Spine: Straight, no defects, no scoliosis.
Extremities: Full ROM, no deformities
Skin: Clear, no rashes.
Neuro: Appropriately oriented to time, place, and person
Recent/remote memory is intact
Attention span/concentration appropriate for age
Speech/Language: conversational, no difficulty producing words today
He does not have any finger agnosia, no left/right confusion today
Fund of knowledge: appropriate for age
Visual fields full to confrontation only on the left side; right upper quadrant hemianopsia
Pupils equal, round and reactive to light and accommodation; extraocular movements full and intact (CN III, IV, VI), no nystagmus
Facial sensation and muscles of mastication normal (CN V)
Face appears and moves symmetrically (CN VII)
Hearing grossly intact bilaterally (CN VIII)
Palate elevates symmetrically (CN IX)
Shoulder shrug equal with good strength (CN XI)
Tongue protrusion midline, no evidence of tongue atrophy or fasciculations (CN XII)
Sensation grossly intact
Reflexes:
R Triceps 2+, Biceps 2+, Brachioradialis 2+, Patellar 2+, Ankle 2+
L Triceps 2+, Biceps 2+, Brachioradialis 2+, Patellar 2+, Ankle 2+
Motor: normal bulk
Strength:
RUE- Deltoid 5/5, Triceps 5/5, Biceps 5/5, Wrist flexion 5/5, Wrist extension 5/5
LUE- Deltoid 5/5, Triceps 5/5, Biceps 5/5, Wrist flexion 5/5, Wrist extension 5/5
RLE- Iliopsoas 5/5, Knee extension 5/5, Knee flexion 5/5, Ankle dorsiflexion 5/5, plantarflexion 5/5
LLE- Iliopsoas 5/5, Knee extension 5/5, Knee flexion 5/5, Ankle dorsiflexion 5/5, plantarflexion 5/5 Tone: normal and symmetric throughout
Gait: normal heel, toe/ appropriate for age; no ataxia
Coordination/Movements: normal for age and symmetric; no tremor or abnormal movements
MRI Brain:
*  Interval development of area of chronic cortical infarct in the left parietal lobe and adjacent left parietotemporal junction.
*  Other area of chronic cortical ischemia in the inferolateral aspect of left temporal lobe.
*  Multiple chronic supratentorial microscrew ischemic white matter changes (history of moyamoya disease).
*  Otherwise, negative for acute intracranial territorial infarct, acute hemorrhage, midline shift, hydrocephalus or brain herniation.
CT  - no new changes
EEG - no epileptiform discharges
Assessment:
Stroke type: Left anterior temporal infarct secondary to moyamoya vasculopathy, left parietal infarct secondary to moyamoya vasculopathy
Etiology: hypoperfusion - suspect it was multifactorial, and related to dehydration/stress from vomiting and recent surgery
Mini-MACS: 1 - Handles objects easily and successfully. The child may have a slight limitation in performing actions that require precision and coordination between the hands but they can still perform them. The child may need somewhat more adult assistance when handling objects compared to other children of the same age.
GMFCS: Level 1: The patient can walk at home, school, outdoors and in the community. They can climb stairs without the use of a railing. The patient can perform gross motor skills such as running and jumping, but speed, balance and coordination are limited.
Pediatric Stroke Outcome Measure -
Right sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Left sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Production: 0.5 - minimal to mild impairment, but normal function
Language Comprehension: 0.5 - minimal to mild impairment, but normal function
Comprehension/Behavioral: 0.5 - minimal to mild impairment, but normal function
Total: 1.5
Discussion:  The patient is a 19 y.o. M w/ PMHx of Moyamoya Syndrome, Left PCA, left parietal, and Left Temporal ischemic strokes who has made great improvements since his first strokes prior and after left EDAS. He has also has had right sided EDAS done on March 30th 2023. Overall, he has recovered greatly from his strokes, but still has some residual cognitive dysfunction. He also endorses quick cognitive fatigue after working or studying. Neurophthalmology recommended against driving for now, and he is in rehabilitation to adapt to his visual impairments.
Overall, he is doing very well but still has residual impairments from stroke which have slowed down his entry into college and limited his driving.
Plan:
Further workup: WES is completed, no further workup is needed at this time for etiology. Will complete genetics counseling prior to his next apt with me
Reimaging: Plan for MRI + conventional angiogram this Fall.
Stroke prevention: continue aspirin 325 mg daily. Bypass has been completed, no further surgeries planned at this time.
He is also an adult now, so will plan for fasting stroke risk factors labs before his next visit to assess his LDL/A1C. May start statin if LDL >70.
Rehab: Continue OT
Anticonvulsant therapy: Keppra course completed. No indication for antiepileptics at this time.
Other Concerns: He is transitioning towards further independence - I agree with passing driving test prior to driving. I'm glad he is working almost full time. We discussed college attendance, which I would be happy for him to do with accommodations. He plans to start slowly.
Follow up: in 6 months in clinic.
