30084
The patient is a 19 y.o. male referred for a follow up evaluation in pediatric stroke clinic at the request of his physicians because a left anterior temporal infarct, moyamoya syndrome and hospital stay.  History is per father and review of medical records made available.
He was last seen in the clinic at which time he had recovered from acute stroke but was still experiencing memory challenges as well as speech and language problems. Our plan at that visit was to focus on neuro rehabilitation. Since the last visit, the patient started an intensive outpatient rehab program and has made significant improvements. Both he and mom are very pleased with the care and progress they have seen. He will be graduating from the program this Friday. He is also enrolled in a typing course he is enjoying improving his typing skills. He recently got a dog that he is enjoying taking care of. He takes the dog on a run/walk twice a day and enjoys being active with the dog. He reports no abnormal neurological symptoms; no dizziness, no negative changes in speech (improved speech), no tremors, and no weakness.
Aside from the great improvements he has made since the last visit, he does report that he was hit in the head by his brother while they were swimming. He said he was hit in the back of the head around the occipital region. He denies LOC, changes in vision, confusion, or dizziness after the incident. Upon leaving to go home, he noticed a headache in the region he was hit. The headache has remained since that time, though he states it has been improving. His headache is worse while running or exercising. We discussed exercise limits - he does monitor his heart rate and doesn't let it go above 150 while exercising (no sprints or intervals) and he uses light resistance for strength training.
Past Medical History
•	Migraines
•	Moyamoya
•	Stroke
Surgical History
•	BURR HOLE FOR SUBDURAL HEMATOMA	Left
•	LUMBAR PUNCTURE
•	ORCHIECTOMY
•	Venous access port removal
•	TUNNELED VENOUS PORT PLACEMENT
Allergies
•	Plasma, Human	Swelling
•	Vancomycin	Other and Rash; Redness to ears, hands, head and neck (red man's syndrome)
Medication	Sig	Dispense	Refill
•	acetaminophen (Tylenol) 325 MG tablet
•	FLUoxetine (PROzac) 20 MG tablet
•	FLUoxetine (PROzac) 40 MG capsule
•	levETIRAcetam (Keppra) 500 MG tablet
•	ondansetron ODT (Zofran-ODT) 4 MG disintegrating tablet
•	SUMAtriptan (Imitrex) 100 MG tablet
Social History
Tobacco Use
•	Smoking status:	Never
•	Smokeless tobacco:	Never
Substance Use Topics
•	Alcohol use:	Yes
•	Drug use:	Never
Family History
Problem	Relation
•	Glaucoma	Mother
•	Glaucoma	Maternal Grandmother
•	Diabetes	Maternal Grandmother
•	Cancer		Maternal Grandmother
•	Hypertension	Maternal Grandfather
•	Diabetes	Maternal Grandfather
•	Thyroid disease	Paternal Grandmother
•	Cancer	Paternal Grandmother
Review of Systems
Constitutional:  Negative for activity change and fever.
HENT:  Negative for congestion, hearing loss and sore throat.
Eyes:  Negative for discharge and itching.  Decreased right visual acuity
Respiratory:  Negative for apnea and shortness of breath.
Cardiovascular:  Negative for chest pain and leg swelling.
Gastrointestinal:  Negative for abdominal distention, constipation and diarrhea.
Endocrine: Negative for polydipsia and polyuria.
Genitourinary:  Negative for decreased urine volume, difficulty urinating and dysuria.
Musculoskeletal:  Negative for back pain, gait problem and joint swelling.
Skin:  Negative for color change and pallor.
Neurological:  Positive for headaches. Negative for dizziness, tremors, facial asymmetry, speech difficulty and weakness.
Hematological:  Negative for adenopathy. Does not bruise/bleed easily.
Psychiatric/Behavioral:  Negative for agitation, behavioral problems and confusion.
Physical Exam:
Visit Vitals
BP	130/73 (BP Location: Right arm, Patient Position: Sitting)
Pulse	58
Temp	36.3 °C (97.4 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	1.77 m (5' 9.69")
Wt	81.8 kg (180 lb 5.4 oz)
BMI	26.11 kg/m²
Smoking Status	Never
BSA	2.01 m²
General: Active, alert, well-appearing.
Head: Normocephalic and atraumatic.
Hearing: Grossly intact.
Speech/Language: adequate vocabulary, appropriate conversational language and articulation
Nose: No drainage or deformities.
Pharynx: Mouth pink, mucous membranes moist.
Lungs: Comfortable on room air.
Cardiovascular: Acyanotic, good capillary refill.
Spine: Straight, no defects, no scoliosis.
Extremities: Full ROM, no deformities
Skin: Clear, no rashes. Around 3cm bruise on right arm in bicep
Neuro: Appropriately oriented to time, place, and person
Recent/remote memory is intact
Attention span/concentration appropriate for age
Speech/Language: conversational, no difficulty producing words
Patient does have difficulty with graphesthesia, and left right orientation. He does not have any finger agnosia.
Fund of knowledge: appropriate for age
Visual fields full to confrontation only on the left side; right homonymous hemianopsia
Pupils equal, round and reactive to light and accommodation; extraocular movements full and intact (CN III, IV, VI), no nystagmus
Facial sensation and muscles of mastication normal (CN V)
Face appears and moves symmetrically (CN VII)
Hearing grossly intact bilaterally (CN VIII)
Palate elevates symmetrically (CN IX)
Shoulder shrug equal with good strength (CN XI)
Tongue protrusion midline, no evidence of tongue atrophy or fasciculations (CN XII)
Sensation grossly intact
Reflexes:
R Triceps 2+, Biceps 2+, Brachioradialis 2+, Patellar 2+, Ankle 2+
L Triceps 2+, Biceps 2+, Brachioradialis 2+, Patellar 2+, Ankle 2+
Motor: normal bulk
Strength:
RUE- Deltoid 5/5, Triceps 5/5, Biceps 5/5, Wrist flexion 5/5, Wrist extension 5/5
LUE- Deltoid 5/5, Triceps 5/5, Biceps 5/5, Wrist flexion 5/5, Wrist extension 5/5
RLE- Iliopsoas 5/5, Knee extension 5/5, Knee flexion 5/5, Ankle dorsiflexion 5/5, plantarflexion 5/5
LLE- Iliopsoas 5/5, Knee extension 5/5, Knee flexion 5/5, Ankle dorsiflexion 5/5, plantarflexion 5/5
Tone: normal and symmetric throughout
Gait: normal heel, toe/ appropriate for age; no ataxia
Coordination/Movements: normal for age and symmetric; no tremor or abnormal movements
MRI Brain:
*  Interval development of area of chronic cortical infarct in the left parietal lobe and adjacent left parietotemporal junction.
*  Other area of chronic cortical ischemia in the inferolateral aspect of left temporal lobe.
*  Multiple chronic supratentorial microscrew ischemic white matter changes (history of moyamoya disease).
*  Otherwise, negative for acute intracranial territorial infarct, acute hemorrhage, midline shift, hydrocephalus or brain herniation.
Outside studies:
EEG - no epileptiform discharges
Assessment:
Stroke type: Left anterior temporal infarct secondary to moyamoya vasculopathy, left parietal infarct secondary to moyamoya vasculopathy
Etiology: hypoperfusion - suspect it was multifactorial, and related to dehydration/stress from vomiting and recent surgery
Mini-MACS: 1 - Handles objects easily and successfully. The child may have a slight limitation in performing actions that require precision and coordination between the hands but they can still perform them. The child may need somewhat more adult assistance when handling objects compared to other children of the same age.
GMFCS: Level 1: The patient can walk at home, school, outdoors and in the community. They can climb stairs without the use of a railing. The patient can perform gross motor skills such as running and jumping, but speed, balance and coordination are limited.
Pediatric Stroke Outcome Measure -
Right sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Left sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Production: 0.5 - minimal to mild impairment, but normal function
Language Comprehension: 0.5 - minimal to mild impairment, but normal function
Comprehension/Behavioral: 0.5 - minimal to mild impairment, but normal function
Total: 1.5
Discussion: Thisis a 19 y.o. M w/ PMHx of Moyamoya Syndrome, Left PCA, left parietal, and Left Temporal ischemic strokes who has made great improvements through rehab and presents today for clinical follow-up. The patient is doing well on current medical management for stroke prevention including aspirin 325mg and increased hydration. He has already received an indirect bypass on the left. The patient will complete imaging in the coming months to determine plan/timing for contralateral bypass. We had initially hoped to complete his contralateral bypass about 2 months after the first bypass, but had to hold off due to the operative risk given his recent strokes.
Plan:
Further workup: Angiography under anesthesia is scheduled. MRI will be scheduled around that time as well. We will follow-up results on imaging and discuss the results in pedi neurosurgery conference.
Stroke prevention: continue aspirin 325 mg daily. Pt was counseled that mild exercise is okay, and counseled to immediately stop exercises if he notices any abnormal symptoms such as dizziness. NO strenuous exercise to avoid hyperventilation. Continue to stay very hydrated at home. Plan for contralateral bypass.
Rehab: Graduating rehab. Continue following with Neurophthalmology and working on functional improvements towards the goal of driving clearance.
Anticonvulsant therapy: Keppra course completed. No indication for antiepileptics at this time.
Other Concerns: none
Follow up: in 3 months in clinic.