30089
Dx: Cerebral Venous Sinus Thrombosis
He is a 15 y.o. male referred for an initial evaluation in pediatric stroke clinic as a hospital follow up because of follow up of a left cavernous sinus thrombosis related to a left orbital cellulitis and pansinusitis complicated by subdural empyema last Spring. At the time some mild narrowing of the left ICA at the level of the left cavernous sinus was noted on MRA, but he never had stroke like symptoms and recovered well after starting anticoagulation and receiving sinus surgery. Last MRI was normal only showing mild linear dural enhancement. Repeat coagulation studies showed normal levels of D-dimer, Protein S, and Protein C are back to baseline. He has finished his anticoagulant regimen of Xarelto 20mg once daily and denies any problems with his medication. The patient appears well and has no complaints or concerns. He is being treated by ENT with flonase for a history of sinus disease. He denies any changes since his last visit and feels no different than he did before his stroke.
Past Medical History
•	Thrombosis of cavernous venous sinus
•	Anticoagulated
•	Anticoagulation management encounter
Surgical History
•	SINUS SURGERY
Review of Systems
Constitutional:  Negative for activity change, appetite change, diaphoresis, fatigue and fever.
HENT:  Negative for hearing loss and tinnitus.
Eyes:  Negative for photophobia and visual disturbance.
Respiratory:  Negative for cough and shortness of breath.
Cardiovascular:  Negative for chest pain and leg swelling.
Gastrointestinal:  Negative for nausea and vomiting.
Endocrine: Negative for cold intolerance and heat intolerance.
Genitourinary:  Negative for dysuria and flank pain.
Musculoskeletal:  Negative for joint swelling and myalgias.
Skin:  Negative for color change and rash.
Neurological:  Negative for dizziness, seizures, weakness, light-headedness and headaches.
Psychiatric/Behavioral:  Negative for behavioral problems, confusion, decreased concentration and sleep disturbance.

Visit Vitals
BP	124/85 (BP Location: Right arm, Patient Position: Sitting)
Pulse	56
Temp	36.7 °C (98.1 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	1.73 m (5' 8.11")
Wt	68.6 kg (151 lb 3.2 oz)
HC	59.3 cm (23.35")
BMI	22.92 kg/m²
Smoking Status	Never
BSA	1.82 m²
GEN: awake and alert, well-nourished, no acute distress
HEENT:  no clefts/pits/masses; no dysmorphic facial features
CHEST: equal chest rise. Breathing non labored
HEART: acyanotic
EXTREMITIES: normal digits, no sacral pits or dimples
SKIN: no lesions, rash, cafe au lait spots
NEUROLOGICAL EXAMINATION:
MS: awake, alert, appropriate for age
CN II-XII:  intact
MOTOR EXAMINATION
Mass:               Normal
Tone:                Normal
Strength:          Normal
DTR’s:   2/2 throughout
Plantar responses:       Flexor bilaterally
Sensation:        Intact
Gait/Station:    Normal
Cerebellum:     Normal


Outside studies:  Reviewed his prior MRI/MRA and his new MRI/MRV - overall, his course is consistent with resolution of his prior cavernous sinus thrombosis and associated mild vasospasm of the left ICA
Assessment:
Stroke type: cavernous sinus thrombosis
Etiology: Cavernous sinusitis
Mini-MACS: 1 - Handles objects easily and successfully. The child may have a slight limitation in performing actions that require precision and coordination between the hands but they can still perform them. The child may need somewhat more adult assistance when handling objects compared to other children of the same age.
GMFCS:1
PSOM -
Right sensorimotor : 0
Left sensorimotor : 0
Language Production: 0
Language comprehension: 0
Comprehension/Behavioral: 0
Total: 0
This is a 15 year old male who developed cavernous sinus thrombosis secondary to cavernous sinusitis that was treated with surgery, antibiotics, and 3 months of anticoagulation with heparin -> rivaroxaban. He feels completely as baseline and has had no headaches, focal weakness or seizures. He recovered remarkably well and I expect he will do well long term.
Plan:
Further workup: not indicated, etiology known
Stroke prevention: already completed rivaroxaban. No need for aspirin or further anticoagulation from my perspective
Rehab: will watch out for needs
Re-imaging: not indicated at this time. I do not feel the need for repeat imaging on him.
Anticonvulsant therapy: not indicated
Other Concerns: None
Follow up: in 6 months
