30083
Reason for Visit: follow-up for perinatal stroke, neonatal seizures
History of Present Illness:  The patient is a 10-month old male with history significant for perinatal stroke and neonatal seizures who is presenting to clinic for follow-up. Since last visit, he has discontinued phenobarbital fully since February. Parents continue to report that he is seizure-free. He continues to develop well after graduation from PT. Mom per dad is following up on the neurosurgery referral from last visit.
Previous History: He was found to have seizure activity last Fall prompting cvEEG evaluation, which showed bilateral multifocal epileptogenicity, and was started on phenobarbital 5 mg/kg/day divided BID. Later, his physicians discussed discontinuation of phenobarbital, which was weaned completely in Winter. A 23-hour EEG was performed which showed biparietal cortical dysfunction worse on the right hemisphere, but no seizures are seen.
Birth History: Born at 39 weeks
Complications during pregnancy/at birth: respiratory distress at birth due to congenital subglottic stenosis for further management.
Developmental history:
Crawl:   6 months
Stood:  Stands up with support, does not independently pull to stand
Walked: not yet
Say first words: 9 months
Combined 2-3 words: not yet
Past Medical History:
•	ASD (atrial septal defect)
•	Imperforate anus
•	VSD (ventricular septal defect and aortic arch hypoplasia)
Surgical History
•	BRONCHOSCOPY RIGID / FLEXIBLE
•	CIRCUMCISION, PRIMARY
•	COLOSTOMY
•	EXPLORATORY LAPAROTOMY
•	LARYNGOSCOPY
•	NECK EXPLORATION
•	POSTERIOR SAGITTAL ANORECTOVAGINAL URETHRAPLASTY
Physical Exam:
Vitals: Temp:	36.3 °C (97.4 °F)
General: Active, alert infant, well developed, well nourished.
Head: Normocephalic and atraumatic. AF is soft and flat.
Ears: Canals clear.
Eyes: PERRL, follows face.
Hearing: Follows sound
Nose: Pink nasal turbinates, septum is midline. Unobstructed
Pharynx: Mouth pink, mucous membranes moist. Clear, no drainage. Teeth-normal for age.
Lungs: Clear to auscultation
Cardiovascular: RRR, no murmur, femoral equal pulses bilaterally.
Abdomen: Soft, nontender, nondistended.  No hepatosplenomegaly, no masses, no hernia.
Spine: Straight, no defects.  Full ROM
Extremities: Full ROM, hip skinfolds symmetric, normal positioning, no dysmorphic features.
Skin: Clear, no rash, no lesions, no birthmarks
Neuro:
Alert, interactive with examiner,
II-XII intact, tracking well visually, equal neck movements bilaterally, able to sit well with support
Sensation grossly intact to light touch
DTR's 2/2, good tone, good strength, no ataxia, plantar reflexes downgoing.
Diagnostics:
Imaging:
MRI Brain: Tiny infarcts in deep white matter bilaterally and the rostrum of the corpus callosum
EEG: Mild encephalopathy, multifocal epileptogenicity, no seizures
23-hour EEG: Biparietal cortical dysfunction worse on the right hemisphere, but no seizures are seen
Assessment:
The patient is a 10-month old male with history significant for perinatal stroke and neonatal seizures who is presenting to clinic for follow-up. He is stable from the seizure standpoint off phenobarbital monotherapy. We discussed that since he has been seizure-free, there is decreased likelihood he will develop seizures at this time considering his perinatal stroke and continued stability. He is also doing well with gross motor and speech development without concern for delay at this time. Considering his positional plagiocephaly, it is stable without worsening and without detectable facial asymmetry; neurosurgery consult is deferred at this time for low likelihood of surgical intervention.
Plan:
1. White matter periventricular infarction
2. Neonatal seizures
3. Neonatal stroke
- Follow up in 6 months
