30094
Dx: Idiopathic ischemic stroke occurring in pediatric patient
The patient is a 2 m.o. male referred for an initial evaluation in pediatric stroke clinic at the request of his physician because of a childhood stroke.  History is per mother and review of medical records made available. I also saw him in the hospital.
He is a 5-week-old boy, born at 38 weeks of pregnancy via vaginal delivery, with no past medical history who was brought by his mom to the ED due to episodic tonic posturing of the upper extremities with crying, and fever. The mother states that yesterday around 2 AM she was feeding him and presented with this event that lasted for about 3-5 seconds, with return to baseline, flushing of his face and crying, but then she saw that the episodes were not associated with feeding. She went to the Pediatrician's office where they reassured her that these was colic. The patient persisted with these events and today had a fever. Initially they occurred every 15-20 minutes, lately every 1 or 2 hours. The patient has not had vomiting, runny nose, cough, diarrhea, or changes in his urine. He lives with his mom and his dad, the mom is having some sore throat. They have a dog who is healthy. He does not have siblings. In the ED the patient had a fever of 101.3, saturating at room air, at his baseline. They performed a lumbar puncture and started him on antimicrobials for concern of neuroinfection.
He had an MRI done which revealed a very small, punctate embolic appearing infarct in the left frontal lobe. The patient had stroke workup which revealed normal MRA brain/neck, small L->R shunt in heart, and normal prothrombotic and inflammatory evaluation. He was positive for parecho virus, which is the presumed provoking factor. He is on aspirin 20.25mg daily.
Since going home, mother says he has been doing well, has had no abnormal events or bleeding complications, and is developing normally. He is now starting to look at his environment and place his hands in his mouth.
Past Medical History
•	Disease due to enterovirus
•	Neonatal stroke
•	Seizure-like activity
Medication
•	aspirin 81 MG EC tablet	0.25 tab(s) BY MOUTH Every 24 Hours for 60 Days
Review of Systems
Constitutional:  Negative for activity change, appetite change and crying.
HENT:  Negative for congestion and drooling.
Eyes:  Negative for discharge and redness.
Respiratory:  Negative for cough and choking.
Cardiovascular:  Negative for leg swelling, fatigue with feeds and cyanosis.
Gastrointestinal:  Negative for abdominal distention and anal bleeding.
Genitourinary:  Negative for decreased urine volume and hematuria.
Musculoskeletal:  Negative for joint swelling.
Skin:  Negative for color change and pallor.
Allergic/Immunologic: Negative for food allergies and immunocompromised state.
Neurological:  Negative for seizures and facial asymmetry.
Hematological:  Negative for adenopathy. Does not bruise/bleed easily.
Visit Vitals
Temp	36.8 °C (98.3 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	59 cm
Wt	5.443 kg (12 lb)
HC	38 cm (14.96")
BMI	15.64 kg/m²
BSA	0.3 m²
GEN: awake and alert, well-nourished, no acute distress
HEENT:  no clefts/pits/masses; no dysmorphic facial features
CHEST: equal chest rise. Breathing non labored
HEART: acyanotic
EXTREMITIES: normal digits, no sacral pits or dimples
SKIN: no lesions, rash, cafe au lait spots
NEUROLOGICAL EXAMINATION:
MS: awake, alert, appropriate for age, not yet tracking past midline
CN II-XII:  intact
MOTOR EXAMINATION
Mass:               Normal
Tone:                Normal
Strength:          Normal
DTR’s:   2/2 throughout
Plantar responses:       Extensor bilaterally
Sensation:        Intact
Moro symmetric, palmar grasp present bilaterally
Results/Data:
Outside studies:  outside MRI/MRA reviewed and DWI changes again appreciated in punctate region in left frontal white matter.
Assessment:
Stroke type: Acute ischemic stroke
Etiology: cryptogenic, presumed embolic due to acute illness
Mini-MACS: 1 - Handles objects easily and successfully. The child may have a slight limitation in performing actions that require precision and coordination between the hands but they can still perform them. The child may need somewhat more adult assistance when handling objects compared to other children of the same age.
GMFCS:1 (normal for age)
PSOM -
Right sensorimotor : 0
Left sensorimotor : 0
Language Production:0
Language comprehension:0
Comprehension/Behavioral:0
Total: 0
This is a 2 month old male who presented with acute URI complicated by a brief episode of dystonic posturing and a very small focus of restricted diffusion on brain MRI with ADC correlate. Presentation is most consistent with a very small stroke, likely caused by acute illness. In my experience, these strokes in this age group specifically during a viral infection do not recur. I will keep the patient on aspirin daily for 2 years for prophylaxis.
Plan:
Further workup:  None needed currently other than re imaging
Stroke prevention: aspirin 20.25mg daily. Will continue aspirin x 2 years
Rehab: not indicated currently
Re-imaging: MRI brain 3 months after stroke (2 months from now)
Anticonvulsant therapy: not indicated
Follow up:  in 3 months, after MRI is completed.
