30092
Dx: Bilateral Watershed Infarcts
The patient is a 9 y.o. female referred for an initial evaluation in pediatric stroke clinic at the request of her physician because of a history of bilateral watershed infarcts in the setting of sickle cell disease.  History is per mother and review of medical records made available. She has Sickle cell disease (HgB SS) and an episode of bilateral MCA/ACA watershed infarcts five years ago. She has recovered her motor function but still has residual mild cognitive impairment and decreased school performance as compared to before her stroke. She had right sided hemiparesis during presentation but that is resolved. Mother does have some neuro complaints.
Cognition – she is back in regular classes, but has an IEP and gets extra time for tests. They feel she is 'very bright' but processing speed can be slow and she has trouble switching tasks. She also will become neurofatigued rapidly.
Staring - she will have episodes where she responds slowly, and, at times she feels she stares and is unresponsive. Mom can recall episodes where she asked her to respond and she wouldn't remember being called to. Her brother calls them her 'staring' spells. No shaking reported. These happen every few days.
Headaches - she has weekly headaches that can last 'all day' where she will want to lay down in a dark place and grab her head. There is no vomiting. She states they really hurt. Unclear if she has an aura based on her history.
Past Medical History
•	Sickle cell anemia
•	History of tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy
•	Cerebral infarct
•	Iron overload due to repeated red blood cell transfusions
Surgical History
•	tonsillectomy with adenoidectomy
Medication	Sig	Dispense	Refill
•	clotrimazole (Lotrimin) 1 % cream
•	deferasirox (Jadenu) 360 MG tablet
Review of Systems
Constitutional: Negative for activity change and appetite change.
HENT: Negative for dental problem and drooling.
Eyes: Negative for discharge and itching.
Respiratory: Negative for choking and chest tightness.
Cardiovascular: Negative for chest pain and leg swelling.
Gastrointestinal: Negative for constipation and diarrhea.
Endocrine: Negative for cold intolerance and heat intolerance.
Genitourinary: Negative for enuresis and flank pain.
Musculoskeletal: Negative for back pain and gait problem.
Skin: Negative for color change and pallor.
Allergic/Immunologic: Negative for environmental allergies and food allergies.
Neurological: Negative for dizziness and facial asymmetry.
Hematological: Negative for adenopathy. Does not bruise/bleed easily.
Psychiatric/Behavioral: Negative for behavioral problems and confusion.
Visit Vitals
BP	103/68 (BP Location: Right arm, Patient Position: Sitting)
Pulse	86
Temp	36.6 °C (97.8 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	1.35 m (4' 5.15")
Wt	27.8 kg (61 lb 4.6 oz)
BMI	15.25 kg/m²
BSA	1.02 m²
GEN: awake and alert, well-nourished, no acute distress
HEENT:  no clefts/pits/masses; no dysmorphic facial features
CHEST: equal chest rise. Breathing non labored
HEART: acyanotic
EXTREMITIES: normal digits, no sacral pits or dimples
SKIN: no lesions, rash, cafe au lait spots
NEUROLOGICAL EXAMINATION:
MS: awake, alert, appropriate for age. Interactive but somewhat shy. She is heard talking spontaneously more to her mother when the visit is ending. She has a 5 count forward digit span.
CN II-XII:  intact
MOTOR EXAMINATION
Mass:               Normal
Tone:                Normal
Strength:          Normal
DTR’s:   2/2 throughout
Plantar responses:       Flexor bilaterally
Sensation:        Intact
Gait/Station:    Normal
Cerebellum:     Normal
Results/Data:
Assessment:
Stroke type: Arterial Ischemic, large artery
Etiology: Sickle Cell Disease
Mini-MACS: 1 - Handles objects easily and successfully. The child may have a slight limitation in performing actions that require precision and coordination between the hands but they can still perform them. The child may need somewhat more adult assistance when handling objects compared to other children of the same age.
GMFCS:1
PSOM -
Right sensorimotor : 0
Left sensorimotor : 0
Language Production: 0
Language comprehension:0
Comprehension/Behavioral: 0.5
Total: 0.5
This is a 9 year old with prior strokes who has recovered her motor function but still has some mild cognitive issues, as well as migraines. She would benefit from addressing them.
Plan:
Further workup: Cause of stroke known, none needed
Stroke prevention: Continue transfusion therapy, no need for aspirin at this time
Rehab: Neuropsych testing referral sent.
Re-imaging: MRI brain with and w/o contrast (+MR PERFUSION) + MRA head/neck to assess for decreased perfusion or moyamoya vessels
Anticonvulsant therapy: not indicated, but will obtain EEG ambulatory to rule out epileptiform discharges.
Other issues: Migraine headaches - will trial riboflavin 400mg daily. Will try a different medication if it doesn't work. I will avoid triptans in this patient due to her sickle cell disease, as well as her frequent migraines.
