30096
Dx: Bilateral Empyema
The patient is an 11 y.o. female with PMHx b/l subdural hematoma and empyema s/p right decompressive hemicraniectomy and ENT sinus washout and bifrontal craniotomy with EVD placement, vasospasm with resultant watershed ACA/MCA infarcts bilaterally L>R  referred for an initial evaluation in pediatric stroke clinic at the request of her physician.  EVD was removed one month later and she was discharged to rehab. She was discharged home after two months and is continuing outpatient therapies. History is per father and review of medical records made available.
Today, their main concern is behavioral disorders. Dad said that she has frequent outbursts which started 1 month ago and include throwing and yelling as loud as she can. She frequently says 'bad' words and makes up stories. She has auditory and visual hallucinations, and she says she sees people and hears them talking, but is intermittent and she sometimes denies that these have happened. Dad says that she has decreased attention span and cannot focus as well as before her injury.
She says that she has R sided headaches most days which last about 5-10 minutes. She said that it feels like her "head is being hit with a bat" and it has a pulsing sensation. They are sometimes associated with photophobia but no phonophobia. She takes Aleve and it improves. Dad says that she does not complain often about headaches. She also says she vomits every 2 days, with the most recent being this morning. She also says she has toe pain that comes and goes. It is a 5/10 at max and occurs everyday on her L foot on the dorsal side. MRI showed tenosynovitis in the extensor hallicus longus but no fracture.
Her speech has improved. She continues with speech therapy. She ambulates on her own in the house and can walk up the stairs with assistance. She uses a wheelchair in public. She has PT and OT starting next week. She lives at home with mom, dad, 2 sisters (21yo, 7yo), and brother (16 yo). She is not in school at the moment and is waiting for cranioplasty scheduled for in two months to restart.
Interval Hx:
Since her last visit, the patient is back in school. She is struggling socially at school as she is being bullied by many of her friends for being "different." As a result of this, she is acting out more and having more behavioral issues (which has previously resolved before going back to school). Parents and she endorse increased impulsivity, when she was previously quite shy. Denies hallucinations or outburst of anger. She does endorse impulsivity, hyperactivity, along with sadness. Physically, she is doing well. She no longer requires assistance to ambulate and has even been able to run. She thinks she can walk for an hour before she would be tired. Denies UE weakness. Discharged from PT. Cognitively, she is in regular classes at school, but is scheduled for an FIE soon. She denies problems with concentration but does think that she needs more time for tests. She is currently undergoing workup for accommodation at school.
She is not taking aspirin at this time.
Past Medical History
•	Empyema
•	Cerebral ischemic stroke due to global hypoperfusion with watershed infarct
Surgical History
•	CRANIOPLASTY FOR CRANIAL DEFECT
•	CRANIOTOMY
Medication
•	aspirin 81 MG chewable tablet
•	diazePAM (Diastat Acudial) rectal kit
•	levETIRAcetam (Keppra) 100 MG/ML solution
•	pyridoxine (Vitamin B-6) 50 MG tablet
Review of Systems
Constitutional:  Positive for irritability. Negative for fatigue and fever.
HENT:  Negative for sore throat and tinnitus.
Cardiovascular:  Negative for chest pain.
Gastrointestinal:  Negative for abdominal distention, abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting.
Genitourinary:  Negative for dysuria and frequency.
Musculoskeletal:  Negative for arthralgias and neck pain.
Skin:  Negative for rash.
Neurological:  Negative for tremors, seizures, speech difficulty, weakness and headaches.
Psychiatric/Behavioral:  Positive for agitation and behavioral problems. Negative for decreased concentration and hallucinations.
Physical Exam:
Visit Vitals
BP	99/62 (BP Location: Right arm, Patient Position: Sitting)
Temp	36.5 °C (97.7 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	1.587 m (5' 2.48")
Wt	50.6 kg (111 lb 9.6 oz)
BMI	20.10 kg/m²
Smoking Status	Never Assessed
BSA	1.49 m²
General: Active, alert, well-appearing.
Head: Normocephalic, cranioplasty scar above L forehead
Hearing: Grossly intact.
Speech: Adequate vocabulary, no impediments.
Nose: PNo drainage or deformities.
Pharynx: Mouth pink, mucous membranes moist. No tonsillar enlargement, exudate, or erythema.
Lungs: Comfortable on room air.
Cardiovascular: Acyanotic
Spine: Straight, no defects, no scoliosis.
Extremities: Full ROM, no deformities
Skin: Clear, no rashes or lesions.
Neurological Exam
Appropriately oriented to place, and person
Recent/remote memory appropriate for age
Attention span/concentration appropriate for age, but jittery/hyperactive
Speech/Language: non-dysarthric, no impediments, fluent
Fund of knowledge appropriate for age
Visual fields full (CNII)
Pupils equal, round and reactive to light; extraocular movements full and intact (CN III, IV, VI)
Sensation intact (CN V)
Face appears and moves symmetrically (CN VII)
Hearing grossly intact bilaterally (CN VIII)
Palate elevates symmetrically (CN IX)
Shoulder shrug equal with good strength (CN XI)
Tongue protrusion midline, no evidence of tongue atrophy or fasciculations (CN XII)
Reflexes:
R Triceps 2+, Biceps 2+, Brachioradialis 2+, Patellar 3+, Ankle 2+
L Triceps 2+, Biceps 2+, Brachioradialis 2+, Patellar 2+, Ankle 2+
Motor: normal bulk
Strength:
RUE- Deltoid 5/5, Triceps 5/5, Biceps 5/5, Wrist flexion 5/5, Wrist extension 5/5
LUE- Deltoid 5/5, Triceps 5/5, Biceps 5/5, Wrist flexion 5/5, Wrist extension 5/5
RLE- Hip Flexion 4-/5, Hip Extension 4+/5, Hip Adduction 5/5, Hip Abduction 5/5, Knee extension 5/5, Knee flexion 5/5, Ankle dorsiflexion 5/5, plantarflexion 5/5
LLE- Hip Flexion 3+/5, Hip Extension 4/5, Hip Adduction 5/5, Hip Abduction 5/5, Knee extension 5/5, Knee flexion 5/5, Ankle dorsiflexion 5/5, plantarflexion 5/5
Tone: normal and symmetric throughout
Gait: normal heel, toe and tandem, slight lean to right; no ataxia,
Station: negative Romberg
Coordination/Movements: normal FTN b/l
Assessment:
Stroke type:  Left hemispheric watershed infarcts due to vasculitis
Etiology: paranasal sinusitis with bilateral empyema causing vasulitis and vasospasm in the left ICA.
Mini-MACS: 1 - Handles objects easily and successfully. The child may have a slight limitation in performing actions that require precision and coordination between the hands but they can still perform them. The child may need somewhat more adult assistance when handling objects compared to other children of the same age.
GMFCS: Level 1: The patient can walk at home, school, outdoors and in the community. They can climb stairs without the use of a railing. The patient can perform gross motor skills such as running and jumping, but speed, balance and coordination are limited.
This patient is a 10 y.o. female with PMHx b/l subdural hematoma and empyema s/p right decompressive hemicraniectomy and ENT sinus washout and bifrontal craniotomy with EVD placement, vasospasm with resultant watershed ACA/MCA infarcts bilaterally L>R referred for a follow up evaluation in pediatric stroke clinic. Motor and speech wise, she has improved significantly with little needs. She is able to ambulate independently and communicated well. Given that she is doing well and has not been taking aspirin, will discontinue. She continues to have behavioral issues, specifically with impulsivity. These issues had initially improved, but have resurfaced now that she has started school and is struggling with bullying. As discussed previously, impulsivity is more likely due to damage in frontal lobe from both encephalitis and her history of strokes. She would benefit from Psychiatry referral and psychology referral for medication and behavioral therapy. In addition, she would benefit from continued school evaluation for possible classroom accommodations.
Pediatric Stroke Outcome Measure -
Right sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Left sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Production: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Comprehension: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Comprehension/Behavioral: 0.5 - minimal to mild impairment, but normal function
Total: 0.5
Plan:
Further workup: No need for repeat MRI - her last one is healing appropriately.
Stroke prevention: OK to stop aspirin as she is recovered and no longer has any signs/sx of vasculitis.
Rehab: Speech therapy, occupational therapy as needed, completed PT
Re-imaging: not indicated at this time
Anticonvulsant therapy: Keppra 1500mg twice a day + pyridoxine
Other Concerns: psychiatry referral sent. Parents are seeking out a therapist, I sent a referral to a clinic that can consult with parents for any social or behavioral needs. Overall, her parents are doing an amazing job taking care of her, and just endorse difficulty adjusting to her new cognitive normal.
Follow up: in 5-6 months