30096
The patient is a 11 y.o. female with PMHx b/l subdural hematoma and empyema s/p right decompressive hemicraniectomy and ENT sinus washout and bifrontal craniotomy with EVD placement, vasospasm with resultant watershed ACA/MCA infarcts bilaterally L>R  referred for an initial evaluation in pediatric stroke clinic at the request of her physician.  EVD was removed and she was discharged to rehab. She was discharged home. History is per father and review of medical records made available. She was initially hemiparetic, but has recovered remarkably well motor wise. She has had her bone flap reattached and has never had a clinical seizure that we know of.
Patient and family report significant behavioral issues since last visit. There was incidence that occurred late summer where the patient cut out the screen of the second story window in order to flee the home. She was later found at local store and police arranged transport to hospital for evaluation. No fractures or other trauma were discovered on ED evaluation. Patient was returned home to parental care. According to the mother and father - present during encounter - this best exemplifies the impulsive behavior. Other examples include running in the parking lot, use of foul language, aggressive behavior toward siblings, inability to focus on specific task before becoming easily distracted. Furthermore, this type of behavior forced her parent's to remove her from school for the remaining three weeks of the academic year. They cited inability for the school to handle her behavioral issues and are planning to enroll in an alternate school this fall, her 6th grade year. For this reason, and change in personality, she has no current friendships.
For her part, she reports less sadness and emotional episodes; however, thoughts come into her mind that will not go away and she will plot to act on those thoughts despite rational opposition, either from herself or parental guidance. During the encounter, she appeared light hearted when her father described the home escape. She knew the action was poor, yet drew greater remorse when describing how she nearly missed jumping on an upright branch that could have pierced her abdomen.
Patient and family report no seizure like activity. She states she has 1 headache per week, easily relieved with Advil. The headache focus is centered around the R frontotemporal region with pulsatile characteristic. Patient and family deny sleep disturbances.
Patient was evaluated by Child and Adolescent Psychiatry. Diagnosis of Adjustment Disorder and Impulse Control Disorder was given and medication started - Guanfacine 5 mg every day. Will perform ADHD evaluation and follow up. Patient and parent's report no help from the prescribed medication. Visited neurosurgery following after cranioplasty and will perform MRI w/wo contrast to follow in 6 months from their encounter.
Past Medical History
•	Empyema
•	Adjustment disorder
•	Impulse control disorder
•	Cerebral ischemic stroke due to global hypoperfusion with watershed infarct
Past Surgical History:
•	CRANIOPLASTY FOR CRANIAL DEFECT	 	10/2022
•	CRANIOTOMY
No Known Allergies
Medication
•	diazePAM (Diastat Acudial) rectal kit
•	guanFACINE (Tenex) 1 MG tablet
•	levETIRAcetam (Keppra) 100 MG/ML solution
•	pyridoxine (Vitamin B-6) 50 MG tablet
Family History
•	No Known Problems
Review of Systems
Constitutional:  Negative for fatigue, fever and irritability.
HENT:  Negative for sore throat and tinnitus.
Cardiovascular:  Negative for chest pain.
Gastrointestinal:  Negative for abdominal distention, abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting.
Genitourinary:  Negative for dysuria and frequency.
Musculoskeletal:  Negative for arthralgias and neck pain.
Skin:  Negative for rash.
Neurological:  Negative for tremors, seizures, speech difficulty, weakness and headaches.
Psychiatric/Behavioral:  Positive for agitation and behavioral problems. Negative for decreased concentration and hallucinations.   Impulsive, Easily distracted :
Physical Exam:
Visit Vitals
BP	109/66 (BP Location: Right arm, Patient Position: Sitting)
Pulse	100
Temp	36.7 °C (98 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	1.626 m (5' 4")
Wt	59.1 kg (130 lb 6.4 oz)
BMI	22.38 kg/m²
Smoking Status	Never Assessed
BSA	1.63 m²
General: Active, alert, well-appearing.
Head: Normocephalic, cranioplasty scar above L forehead
Hearing: Grossly intact.
Speech: Adequate vocabulary, no impediments.
Nose: PNo drainage or deformities.
Pharynx: Mouth pink, mucous membranes moist. No tonsillar enlargement, exudate, or erythema.
Lungs: Comfortable on room air.
Cardiovascular: Acyanotic
Spine: Straight, no defects, no scoliosis.
Extremities: Full ROM, no deformities
Skin: Clear, no rashes or lesions.
Psych: Mood appears appropriate, logical thought process, no SI/HI/AVH
Neurological Exam
Appropriately oriented to place, and person
Recent/remote memory appropriate for age
Attention span/concentration appropriate for age, but jittery/hyperactive
Speech/Language: non-dysarthric, no impediments, fluent
Fund of knowledge appropriate for age
Visual fields full (CNII)
Pupils equal, round and reactive to light; extraocular movements full and intact (CN III, IV, VI)
Sensation intact (CN V)
Face appears and moves symmetrically (CN VII)
Hearing grossly intact bilaterally (CN VIII)
Palate elevates symmetrically (CN IX)
Shoulder shrug equal with good strength (CN XI)
Tongue protrusion midline, no evidence of tongue atrophy or fasciculations (CN XII)
Reflexes:
R Triceps 2+, Biceps 2+, Brachioradialis 2+, Patellar 3+, Ankle 2+
L Triceps 2+, Biceps 2+, Brachioradialis 2+, Patellar 2+, Ankle 2+
Motor: normal bulk
Strength:
RUE- Deltoid 5/5, Triceps 5/5, Biceps 5/5, Wrist flexion 5/5, Wrist extension 5/5
LUE- Deltoid 5/5, Triceps 5/5, Biceps 5/5, Wrist flexion 5/5, Wrist extension 5/5
RLE- Hip Flexion 4/5, Hip Extension 4/5, Hip Adduction 5/5, Hip Abduction 5/5, Knee extension 5/5, Knee flexion 5/5, Ankle dorsiflexion 5/5, plantarflexion 5/5
LLE- Hip Flexion 4/5, Hip Extension 4/5, Hip Adduction 5/5, Hip Abduction 5/5, Knee extension 5/5, Knee flexion 5/5, Ankle dorsiflexion 5/5, plantarflexion 5/5
Tone: normal and symmetric throughout
Gait: normal heel, toe and tandem, slight lean to right; no ataxia,
Station: negative Romberg
Coordination/Movements: normal FTN b/l
Results/Data:
Continuous EEG:
- Continuous generalized slowing in right hemisphere. There is asymmetry with decrease amplitudes in the right frontal region. No clear PDR is seen. No epileptiform discharges or seizures seen.
MRI Brain w/wo contrast:
*  Supratentorial ventriculomegaly with slightly increase in size of right temporal horn. Otherwise unchanged lateral ventricles with persistent periventricular FLAIR hyperintensity, which may be due to transependymal flow of CSF.
*  Stable small extra-axial laminar collections. Stable 5 mm rightward shifting of the septum pellucidum.
*  Unchanged areas of encephalomalacia and gliosis in a few aspect bilateral frontal lobes and right anterior temporal pole.
*  Evolving subacute/chronic left ACA/MCA watershed ischemic infarcts.
MRI Brain w/wo contrast:
Findings most compatible with complicated paranasal sinusitis with extensive bilateral subdural empyema involving the right frontal and temporal convexities, bilateral middle cranial fossae, and probably retro-clivus. There is underlying cerebritis and leptomeningitis. Suspected additional thin subdural empyema along left cavernous sinus/greater wing sphenoid. Associated 0.6 cm right to left midline shift. Crowding of perimesencephalic extra-axial spaces. Slightly low-lying cerebellar tonsils.
Small areas of diffusion restriction in the posterior limb of the left internal capsule (supplied by anterior circulation) and the splenium of the corpus callosum (supplied by posterior circulation). Findings are concerning for vascular compromise of unclear etiology (mass effect from the midline shift? Vasospasm? Procoagulative state? Venous thrombosis?). A small area of susceptibility in the right frontal lobe, may represent a focus of hemorrhage.
Assessment:
Stroke type:  Left hemispheric watershed infarcts due to vasculitis
Etiology: paranasal sinusitis with bilateral empyema causing vasulitis and vasospasm in the left ICA.
Mini-MACS: 1 - Handles objects easily and successfully. The child may have a slight limitation in performing actions that require precision and coordination between the hands but they can still perform them. The child may need somewhat more adult assistance when handling objects compared to other children of the same age.
GMFCS: Level 1: The patient can walk at home, school, outdoors and in the community. They can climb stairs without the use of a railing. The patient can perform gross motor skills such as running and jumping, but speed, balance and coordination are limited.
This is a 11 y.o. female with PMHx b/l b/l subdural hematoma and empyema s/p right decompressive hemicraniectomy and ENT sinus washout and bifrontal craniotomy with EVD placement, vasospasm with resultant watershed ACA/MCA infarcts bilaterally L>R referred for a follow up evaluation in pediatric stroke clinic. Motor and speech wise, she has improved significantly with little needs. She is able to ambulate independently and communicated well. Given that she is doing well and has not been taking aspirin, will discontinue. She continues to have behavioral issues, specifically with impulsivity. These issues had initially improved, but have resurfaced now that she has started school and is struggling with bullying. As discussed previously, impulsivity is more likely due to damage in frontal lobe from both encephalitis and her history of strokes. She would benefit from continued evaluation and treatment with Psychiatry for medication and behavioral therapy. In addition, she would benefit from continued school evaluation for possible classroom accommodations. Will slowly wean Keppra in effort to improve with the behavioral issues as this medication is known to cause neuropsychiatric side affects. No seizure activity reported, and reviewed EEG from inpatient stay was negative for epileptiform activity.
Pediatric Stroke Outcome Measure -
Right sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Left sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Production: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Comprehension: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Comprehension/Behavioral: 1 - moderate impairment, decreased function
Total: 1
Plan:
Further workup: No need for repeat MRI from my opinion. The cause of her stroke and encephalitis was addressed
Stroke prevention: no need for aspirin or other stroke prevention
Rehab: Speech therapy, occupational therapy as needed, completed PT
Re-imaging: not indicated at this time
Anticonvulsant therapy: Will wean Keppra by following schedule:
1000 mg BID for 2 weeks
500 mg BID for 2 weeks
250 mg BID for 2 weeks
*STOP
*Provided education regarding seizure precautions with high risk activities such as swimming, bathing, ect; Any new activity requires reverting to previous dose of Keppra for seizure prophylaxis and make the clinic aware for sooner follow up appointment
Other Concerns: Will communicate current strategy of weaning anticonvulsant medication to following psychiatrist. I sent a referral to LMSW who consulted with parents for any social or behavioral needs. Referral sent to PATH program. Overall, her parents are doing an amazing job taking care of her, and just endorse difficulty adjusting to her new cognitive normal.
Follow up: in 5-6 months

