30095
Dx: Right middle cerebral artery stroke, Hemiparesis affecting left side as late effect of stroke
The patient is a 5 y.o. female here for a follow up evaluation in pediatric stroke clinic at the request of her physician because of a right MCA stroke after an unrestrained motor vehicle accident.
Regarding her stroke; She was brought to the ED from an outside hospital following an unrestrained MVA. CTA revealed right grade 2 ICA injury at the time, and follow up imaging demonstrated a right MCA stroke. Brain MRI demonstrated a right parietal SDH, right ICA grade 2 injury, right MCA stroke, and left BG traumatic IPH.  She was put on lovenox for six weeks for treatment and subsequent imaging results showed improvement in caliber of the right ICA, and lovenox was discontinued. Patient was in the hospital for 2 weeks and was discharged to rehab and was there for one month.
At this visit, her mother and father report she is doing well, but they're concerned about continued difficulty in school, impulsivity, and lack of improvement in her left arm strength. Her left arm is strong, but her hand control is still very impaired. She remains disinhibited and distractible. She is toilet trained now after having previously lost the skill.
Her private PT/OT/SLP ran out and she is not receiving it through the school. She is not taking methylphenidate at this time. She is taking Baclofen 10mg BID.
Past Medical History
•	Traumatic closed displaced fracture of shaft of right radius with ulna with routine healing
•	Fracture of distal end of tibia with fibula with routine healing, left, open type III
•	Closed nondisplaced fracture of left calcaneus with routine healing
•	Injury of internal carotid artery, right, sequela
•	Heart murmur
•	TBI (traumatic brain injury)
•	Liver laceration
Surgical History
•	CLOSED REDUCTION FOREARM FRACTURE
•	EXTERNAL FIXATION TIBIAL FRACTURE
•	FIXATION DEVICE REMOVAL
•	LEG TENDON SURGERY
•	TIBIA FRACTURE SURGERY
Medication
•	baclofen (Lioresal) 10 MG tablet
•	clonazePAM (KlonoPIN) 1 MG tablet
•	Ex-Lax 15 MG chocolate chewable tablet
•	levETIRAcetam (Keppra) 100 MG/ML solution
•	methylphenidate (Ritalin) 10 MG tablet
Review of Systems
Gen: No fever, no fatigue
ENT: No eye discharge, no rhinorrhea
Cardio: No palpitations, no chest pain
Pulm: No shortness of breath, no cough
GI: Occasional stomach upset with meals, no nausea
GU: No dysuria, no hematuria
Skin: No rashes, no bruises
Endo: No heat intolerance, no cold intolerance
MSK: No muscle pain, no joint pain
Physical Exam:
Visit Vitals
BP	96/62 (BP Location: Right arm, Patient Position: Sitting)
Pulse	82
Temp	36.8 °C (98.3 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	1.105 m (3' 7.5")
Wt	20 kg (44 lb 3.2 oz)
BMI	16.42 kg/m²
Smoking Status	Never Assessed
BSA	0.78 m²
General: Active, alert, well-appearing.
Head: Normocephalic, well-healed scars along right upper forehead consistent with prior motor vehicle accident
Ears: Canals clear.
Eyes: PERRL, eyes aligned, sees small objects, follows face.
Hearing: Responds to sounds and commands.
Speech: appears normal.
Nose: Pink nasal turbinates, septum is midline. Not obstructed.
Pharynx: Mouth pink, mucous membranes moist. Clear, no drainage.
Lungs: Comfortable on room air.
Cardiovascular: Acyanotic, good capillary refill.
Abdomen: Soft, nontender, nondistended.
Spine: Straight, no defects.
Extremities: Full ROM including neck and spine, normal positioning, left lower extremity in brace.
Skin: No rashes, occasional well-healed scars consistent with MVA.
Neurologic Exam:
Appropriately oriented to time, place.
Recent/remote memory appropriate for age
Attention span/concentration impaired for age, she is easily distractible and interrupts frequently, though she is more focused than at her last visit
Speech/Language: speaks fluently, non-dysarthric, no impediments
Visual fields full to confrontation bilaterally (CNII)
Pupils equal, round and reactive to light; extraocular movements full and intact (CN III, IV, VI)
Facial sensation and muscles of mastication normal (CN V)
Face appears and moves symmetrically (CN VII)
Hearing grossly intact bilaterally (CN VIII)
Tongue protrusion midline, no evidence of tongue atrophy or fasciculations (CN XII)
Sensation grossly intact
Motor: normal bulk
Strength:
RUE- Deltoid 5/5, Triceps 5/5, Biceps 5/5, Wrist flexion 5/5, Wrist extension 5/5
LUE- Deltoid 4/5, Triceps 5/5, Biceps 5/5, Wrist flexion 4/5, Wrist extension 4/5. Finger flexion 3/5, finger extension 3/5
RLE- Iliopsoas 5/5, Knee extension 5/5, Knee flexion 5/5, Ankle dorsiflexion 5/5, plantarflexion 5/5
LLE- Iliopsoas 5/5, Knee extension 5/5, Knee flexion 5/5, Ankle dorsiflexion not tested due to
Tone: now slightly increased in left upper extremity, mild spastic catch
Gait: no ataxia
Station: negative Romberg
Coordination/Movements: normal for age and symmetric; no tremor or abnormal movements
Assessment:
This is a 5 year old female with a prior R. ICA injury from a motor vehicle accident who has neurologic impairment from a right MCA embolic stroke, inferior frontal lobe contusions, and DAI grade I. She is recovering but still has some behavioral disinhibition and quickness to anger. Her left arm is still impaired, and she is not currently receiving therapy at home. School is out so she is not getting therapy at school either. I think she would benefit from a round of intensive therapy.
Stroke type: R MCA
Etiology: embolic from Right ICA injury
Mini-MACS: 2 - Handles most objects, but with somewhat reduced quality and/or speed of achievement. Some actions can only be performed and accomplished with some difficulty and after practice. The child may try an alternative approach, such as using only one hand. The child need adult assistance to handle objects more frequently compared to children at the same age.
GMFCS: Level 2: The patient can walk in most settings and climb stairs holding onto a railing. They may experience difficulty walking long distances and balancing on uneven terrain, inclines, in crowded areas or confined spaces. The patient may walk with physical assistance, a handheld mobility device or used wheeled mobility over long distances. The patient may have only minimal ability to perform gross motor skills such as running and jumping.
Pediatric Stroke Outcome Measure -
Right sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Left sensorimotor: 1 - moderate impairment, decreased function
Language Production: 0
Language Comprehension: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Comprehension/Behavioral: 1
Total: 2
Plan:
Further workup: No further workup. Cause is known
Stroke prevention: No prevention medication necessary - her vessels had returned to normal.
Rehab: Should continue private PT/OT. Information given to parents. Will also refer her for TOPSS study
Re-imaging: 23 hour EEG completed and without any epileptiform discharges
Anticonvulsant therapy: No antiepileptics needed
Follow up: 3 months in clinic.