30093
Dx: Ruptured middle cerebral artery aneurysm, Spastic hemiplegia of left nondominant side as late her physician because of a history of right MCA aneurysm rupture and right MCA posterior division ischemic stroke.  History is per father and review of medical records made available. She was hospitalized last Spring after she had a seizure at school - on arrival to our hospital she was found to have a ruptured giant R. MCA aneurysm. She required open surgery with sacrifice of the right MCA posterior division. She also had a right temporal hemicraniectomy and had an EVD placed. She had seizures from the stroke, and was in burst surpression with pentobarbital for 10 days, and also had sympathetic hyperactivity treated with baclofen, propranolol, and gabapentin. She never had CONFIRMED seizures, but was on levetiracetam and lacosamide for seizure prevention.  She had a 6 week stay in intensive rehab after discharge. She had her bone flap replaced in the Fall. Her father notes she is still weak on her left arm and leg and is 'disinhibited'. She speaks very impulsively and is requiring assistance in school.
This is her first time following with me in clinic. She is taking keppra 1250mg BID. She is still getting private PT and OT.
Past Medical History
•	Aneurysm: R MCA rupture
•	S/P percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) tube placement
Surgical History
•	CRANIOTOMY
•	GASTROSTOMY TUBE PLACEMENT
Medication
•	baclofen (Lioresal) 10 MG tablet
•	clonazePAM (KlonoPIN) 2 MG disintegrating tablet
•	lacosamide (Vimpat) 50 MG tablet
•	levETIRAcetam (Keppra) 500 MG tablet
•	levETIRAcetam (Keppra) 750 MG tablet
•	methylphenidate (Ritalin) 10 MG tablet
•	sertraline (Zoloft) 50 MG tablet
Review of Systems
Constitutional:  Negative for activity change and appetite change.
HENT:  Negative for drooling and ear discharge.
Eyes:  Negative for discharge and itching.
Respiratory:  Negative for choking and chest tightness.
Cardiovascular:  Negative for chest pain and leg swelling.
Gastrointestinal:  Negative for abdominal pain.
Endocrine: Negative for heat intolerance.
Genitourinary:  Negative for difficulty urinating and dyspareunia.
Musculoskeletal:  Negative for arthralgias and back pain.
Allergic/Immunologic: Negative for environmental allergies.
Neurological:  Negative for dizziness and facial asymmetry.
Hematological:  Negative for adenopathy. Does not bruise/bleed easily.
Psychiatric/Behavioral:  Negative for agitation, confusion and decreased concentration.
Physical Exam:
Visit Vitals
BP	116/75 (BP Location: Right arm, Patient Position: Sitting)
Pulse	81
Temp	36.7 °C (98.1 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	1.473 m (4' 10")
Wt	46.4 kg (102 lb 6.4 oz)
BMI	21.40 kg/m²
Smoking Status	Never
BSA	1.38 m²
General: Active, alert, well-appearing.
Head: Normocephalic and atraumatic.
Ears: Canals clear.
Hearing: intact.
Nose: Pink nasal turbinates, septum is midline. No drainage or deformities.
Pharynx: Mouth pink, mucous membranes moist. No tonsillar enlargement, exudate, or erythema.
Lungs: Comfortable on room air.
Cardiovascular: Acyanotic, good capillary refill.
Spine: Straight, no defects, no scoliosis.
Extremities: Full ROM, no deformities
Skin: Clear, no rashes or lesions.
Neurologic Exam:
Appropriately oriented to time, place, and person
Recent/remote memory appropriate
Attention span/concentration impaired. Patient frequently changes subjects and will interrupt examiner and father with questions
Speech/Language: non-dysarthric, fluent
Fund of knowledge appropriate for age
Visual fields with left homonymous hemianopsia
Pupils equal, round and reactive to light extraocular movements full and intact (CN III, IV, VI)
Facial sensation and muscles of mastication normal (CN V)
Face appears and moves symmetrically (CN VII)
Hearing grossly intact bilaterally (CN VIII)
Palate elevates symmetrically (CN IX)
Shoulder shrug equal with good strength (CN XI)
Tongue protrusion midline, no evidence of tongue atrophy or fasciculations (CN XII)
Sensation grossly intact bilaterally. She did not have extinction
Motor: normal bulk
Strength:
RUE- 5/5
LUE- 3/5, patient has drift, with impaired hand grip and finger extension
RLE- 5/5
LLE- impaired hip flexion, knee extension. 4/5
Tone: increased in left upper extremity
Gait: hemispastic gait with swinging of left leg
Station: negative Romberg
Coordination/Movements: normal for age and symmetric; no tremor or abnormal movements
Results/Data:
Prior MRIs:  Stroke in right BG, right frontal/temporal/parietal lobes. Evidence of right sylvian hemorrhage
EEG: slowing of right hemisphere, otherwise no epileptiform discharges.
Assessment:
Stroke type: SAH, ICH, and Right MCA arterial ischemic stroke
Etiology: Giant MCA aneurysm, idiopathic
Mini-MACS: 4 - Handles a limited selection of easily managed objects in simple actions. The actions are performed slowly, with exertion and/or random precision. The child needs constant adult help and support to handle objects.
GMFCS: Level 2: The patient can walk in most settings and climb stairs holding onto a railing. They may experience difficulty walking long distances and balancing on uneven terrain, inclines, in crowded areas or confined spaces. The patient may walk with physical assistance, a handheld mobility device or used wheeled mobility over long distances. The patient may have only minimal ability to perform gross motor skills such as running and jumping.
Pediatric Stroke Outcome Measure -
Right sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Left sensorimotor: 1 - moderate impairment, decreased function
Language Production: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Comprehension: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Comprehension/Behavioral: 1 - moderate impairment, decreased function
Total: 2
This is a 13 year old female who had a giant right MCA aneurysm rupture and right MCA ischemic stroke as a complication. The aneurysm has been removed via open surgery, and we are now just managing sequelae of her stroke. She has a significant left hemiparesis and behavioral impairment. The majority of patients with SAH will have chronic cognitive changes, which includes this patient. I think she may benefit from intensive rehabilitation therapy for her arm.
Plan:
Further workup: None at this time.
Stroke prevention: Her aneurysm is secured, no further stroke prevention needed
Rehab: Continue PT/OT/PM&R. Will refer her for TOPSS intensive rehab study
Re-imaging: None needed at this time in my opinion
Anticonvulsant therapy: Given her lack of definite seizures and no epileptiform discharges on EEG, will lower her keppra dose to 750mg BID.
Follow up: in 6 months in clinic.
