30105
Dx: Cavernous Sinus Thrombosis, Right MCA Embolic Stroke
The patient is a 10 y.o. male referred for an initial evaluation in pediatric stroke clinic at the request of his physician because of a history of cavernous sinus thrombosis and right MCA territory ischemic stroke.  History is per father and review of medical records made available.
He has a history of bilateral cavernous sinus thrombosis secondary to MRSA pansinusitis in November. He had been admitted for sepsis, and an MRI was obtained to assess for empyema or signs of meningitis. Incidentally, he was noted to have a right frontal embolic appearing stroke as well as bilateral cavernous sinus thrombosis. He had emergent sinus washout and was started on anticoagulation while continuing antibiotics for his sinus disease. He completed 3 months of therapeutic anticoagulation recently. Notably, his Pedi NIHSS was always 0, with his only symptoms being headache and some mild drowsiness.
Since going home he has been compliant with his nose washouts. He was discharged on Xarelto but stopped taking it 2 weeks ago as he had finished 3 months of therapy. He is pending repeat imaging.
Past Medical History
•	Thrombosis of cavernous venous sinus
•	Cerebral infarction due to embolism of right middle cerebral artery
•	Anticoagulation management encounter
Surgical History
•	SINUS SURGERY	Bilateral
Medication	Sig	Dispense	Refill
•	cetirizine (ZyrTEC) 5 MG/5ML syrup
•	Deep Sea Nasal Spray 0.65 % nasal spray
•	fluticasone (Flonase) 50 MCG/ACT nasal spray
•	Xarelto 15 MG tablet
Review of Systems
Constitutional:  Negative for activity change and appetite change.
HENT:  Negative for congestion and drooling.
Eyes:  Negative for discharge and itching.
Respiratory:  Negative for apnea, choking and chest tightness.
Gastrointestinal:  Negative for abdominal distention and abdominal pain.
Endocrine: Negative for cold intolerance and heat intolerance.
Genitourinary:  Negative for difficulty urinating.
Allergic/Immunologic: Negative for environmental allergies and food allergies.
Neurological:  Negative for dizziness and facial asymmetry.
Hematological:  Negative for adenopathy. Does not bruise/bleed easily.
Physical Exam:
Visit Vitals
BP	104/69 (BP Location: Right arm, Patient Position: Sitting)
Pulse	90
Temp	36.4 °C (97.6 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	1.435 m (4' 8.5")
Wt	32.8 kg (72 lb 6.4 oz)
BMI	15.95 kg/m²
Smoking Status	Never Assessed
BSA	1.14 m²
General: Active, alert, well-appearing.
Head: normocephalic, anterior fontanelle is open, soft, and flat, no clefts/pits/masses
Eyes: lids open, eyes clear without drainage, conjugate gaze
Ears: normally set, no pits and no tags
Nose: nares patent
Oropharynx: palate intact, moist mucous membranes
Chest: no retractions and no tachypnea
Cardiac: acyanotic
Abdomen: soft, non-tender, non-distended, no hepatosplenomegaly, no masses
Musculoskeletal: moves all extremities normally, no deformities or dysmorphic features
Back: spine intact, no tufts, no lesions, no dimples
Skin: clear, no birthmarks
Neurologic Exam:
Appropriately oriented to time, place, and person
Recent/remote memory appropriate for age
Attention span/concentration appropriate for age
Speech/Language: non-dysarthric, no impediments, fluent
Fund of knowledge appropriate for age
Visual fields full to confrontation; (CNII)
Pupils equal, round and reactive to light; extraocular movements full and intact (CN III, IV, VI)
Facial sensation and muscles of mastication normal (CN V)
Face appears and moves symmetrically (CN VII)
Hearing grossly intact bilaterally (CN VIII)
Palate elevates symmetrically (CN IX)
Shoulder shrug equal with good strength (CN XI)
Tongue protrusion midline, no evidence of tongue atrophy or fasciculations (CN XII)
Sensation grossly intact
Reflexes:
R Triceps 2+, Biceps 2+, Brachioradialis 2+, Patellar 2+, Ankle 2+
L Triceps 2+, Biceps 2+, Brachioradialis 2+, Patellar 2+, Ankle 2+
Plantar response downgoing
Motor: normal bulk
Strength:
RUE- Deltoid 5/5, Triceps 5/5, Biceps 5/5, Wrist flexion 5/5, Wrist extension 5/5
LUE- Deltoid 5/5, Triceps 5/5, Biceps 5/5, Wrist flexion 5/5, Wrist extension 5/5
RLE- Iliopsoas 5/5, Knee extension 5/5, Knee flexion 5/5, Ankle dorsiflexion 5/5, plantarflexion 5/5
LLE- Iliopsoas 5/5, Knee extension 5/5, Knee flexion 5/5, Ankle dorsiflexion 5/5, plantarflexion 5/5 Tone: normal and symmetric throughout
Gait: normal heel, toe and tandem/ appropriate for age; no ataxia
Station: negative Romberg
Coordination/Movements: normal for age and symmetric; no tremor or abnormal movements
Prior Imaging:
MHH Brain w/wo contrast MRI
IMPRESSION:
1. Bilateral cavernous sinus thrombosis secondary to extensive paranasal sinus infection with thin subdural empyema extending along the left tentorium leaflet.
2. Associated encasement and narrowing of the bilateral cavernous and petrous segments of the internal carotid arteries, more pronounced on the right with associated right cerebral infarctions (watershed versus embolic). MRA or CTA will better assess.
MHH CTA Head/Neck CT
IMPRESSION:
1. Mild diffuse narrowing of the petrous and cavernous right ICA and cavernous segment of the left ICA likely by cavernous sinus thrombosis. Otherwise, no focal occlusion, high-grade stenosis or aneurysmal formation proximal major branches of the anterior posterior circulation is identified
2. Patent major neck arteries.
MHH ECHO IAN Report/Image
Summary:
1. | Initial study to evaluate for endocarditis in a patient with fever, bacteremia, and concern for septic emboli on brain MRI. |
2. | No obvious intracardiac vegetation seen; absence of obvious vegetation on echocardiogram does not exclude a diagnosis of endocarditis. Clinical and laboratory correlation is advised. |
3. | Qualitatively normal chamber sizes. Normal global left ventricular systolic function. Qualitatively normal global right ventricular systolic function. |
4. | Possible tiny patent foramen ovale with left to right shunting. |
5. | Mild pulmonary insufficiency. No pulmonary valve stenosis. Based on pulmonary insufficiency Doppler jet, the pulmonary artery end diastolic pressure is estimated to be normal. |
6. | No pericardial effusion. |
MHH Ext Upper/Lower Venous Doppler Bilat US
IMPRESSION:
1. Noncompressible thrombus within the mid to distal left cephalic vein with minimal flow.
2. Linear structure within the proximal to distal right cephalic vein with flow, likely reflecting a catheter. Correlate clinically.
Assessment:
Stroke type: CVST + embolic stroke from large artery vasculitis (Right ICA).
Etiology: CVST - pansinusitis
ICA stroke - vasculitis secondary to pansinusitis and cavernous sinus thrombophlebitis
Mini-MACS: 1 - Handles objects easily and successfully. The child may have a slight limitation in performing actions that require precision and coordination between the hands but they can still perform them. The child may need somewhat more adult assistance when handling objects compared to other children of the same age.
GMFCS: Level 1: The patient can walk at home, school, outdoors and in the community. They can climb stairs without the use of a railing. The patient can perform gross motor skills such as running and jumping, but speed, balance and coordination are limited.
Pediatric Stroke Outcome Measure -
Right sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Left sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Production: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Comprehension: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Comprehension/Behavioral: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Total: 0
The patient is a 10 year old male with a history of pansinusitis complicated by bilateral cavernous sinus thrombosis and ICA narrowing and a right MCA embolic stroke. The embolic stroke was secondary to ICA compression and vasculitis from the pansinusitis and cavernous sinus thrombophlebitis. Luckily, it was in a deep frontal area without any overt neurologic signs or symptoms. He has finished 3 months of anticoagulation and stopped taking it 2 weeks ago. Given he has no symptoms and is continuing his nasal washouts, ok to hold off in my opinion, but I will inform my colleague in thrombosis clinic.
Plan:
Further workup: MRA head w/o contrast + MRV head w/o contrast
Stroke prevention: no longer on anticoagulation. Continue sinus treatments per ENT
Rehab: not needed given clinical condition
Re-imaging: as above
Anticonvulsant therapy: not indicated
Follow up:  in 3-4 months.
