30106
Dx: Fine motor delay, Gross motor delay, Ischemic stroke, Gastrostomy tube dependent, Partial symptomatic epilepsy with complex partial seizures, not intractable, without status epilepticus
The patient is a 5 m.o. male referred for an initial evaluation in pediatric stroke clinic at the request of his physician because of a history of childhood onset stroke with CVST and arterial ischemic stroke in the setting of hypoxic respiratory failure.  History is per father and review of medical records made available.
He was born at 34 weeks and admitted for RSV in December. He required intubation due to bradycardia and hypotension, and subsequent MRI/MRA/MRV demonstrated CVST (right transverse, sigmoid sinus), left MCA territory ischemic stroke in the parietal lobe with what looked like HT1 hemorrhagic conversion.
He was anticoagulated for CVST, and otherwise my stroke workup was not remarkable. He completed anticoagulation in February when repeat imaging demonstrated no thrombus, as well as no new infarction.
Since going home, father states he has been doing well. He has been taking keppra 80mg BID without difficulty. He hasn't started therapies.
Past Medical History
•	Ischemic stroke
•	Gastrostomy tube dependent
•	Other dysphagia
•	EEG abnormal
•	Seizure disorder
•	S/P Nissen fundoplication (with gastrostomy tube placement)
•	Prematurity
•	Gastroesophageal reflux disease without esophagitis
•	Lymphopenia
•	Bilateral vocal cord paresis
•	Stridor
•	Oropharyngeal dysphagia
•	PFO with atrial septal aneurysm
•	Supravalvar pulmonary stenosis
•	Right pulmonary artery stenosis
Surgical History
•	GASTROJEJUNOSTOMY W/ JEJUNOSTOMY TUBE
•	GASTROSTOMY TUBE PLACEMENT
Medication
•	acetaminophen (Tylenol Children's) 160 MG/5ML suspension
•	hydrocortisone 1 % ointment
•	sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim (Bactrim) 200-40 MG/5ML suspension
•	[DISCONTINUED] levETIRAcetam (Keppra) 100 MG/ML solution
Review of Systems
Constitutional: Negative.
HENT: Negative.
Eyes: Negative.
Respiratory: Negative.
Cardiovascular: Negative.
Gastrointestinal: Negative.
Genitourinary: Negative.
Musculoskeletal: Negative.
Skin: Negative.
Allergic/Immunologic: Negative.
Neurological: Negative.
Hematological: Negative.
Physical Exam:
Visit Vitals
Temp	36.9 °C (98.5 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	59 cm
Wt	5.68 kg (12 lb 8.4 oz)
HC	40 cm (15.75")
BMI	16.32 kg/m²
Smoking Status	Never Assessed
BSA	0.31 m²
General: Active, alert, well-appearing.
Head: Normocephalic and atraumatic. AF is soft and flat.
Ears: Canals clear.
Eyes: PERRL, follows face.
Hearing: Follows sound.
Nose: Pink nasal turbinates, septum is midline. Unobstructed.
Pharynx: Mouth pink, mucous membranes moist. Clear, no drainage.
Lungs: Comfortable on room air.
Cardiovascular: Acyanotic, good capillary refill.
Abdomen: Soft, nontender, nondistended. No hepatosplenomegaly, no masses, no hernia.
Spine: Straight, no defects. Full ROM.
Extremities: Full ROM, hip skinfolds symmetric, normal positioning, no dysmorphic features.
Skin: Clear, no rash, no lesions, no birthmarks.
Neuro: II-XII intact, DTR's 2/2, good tone, good strength. Symmetric muscle movements
Results/Data:
Component
•	TEST NAME:		Lymphocyte Subset Panel 7 		Final
Comment: Congenital Immunodeficiencies
•	TEST NAME:		Lymphocyte Mitogen 		Final
Comment: Proliferation
Outside studies:  Outside MRIs reviewed:
MHH Brain w/wo contrast MRI
BRAIN MRV: The deep cerebral veins and major venous sinuses are patent. The left transverse sinus is dominant. There are no signs of venous sinus thrombosis.
IMPRESSION:
1. Expected evolutionary changes of the areas of ischemia and hemorrhage in the left parietal lobe, with interval development of encephalomalacia with hemosiderin deposits.
2. Prominence of the subarachnoid space bilaterally.
3. Small bilateral subdural collections with CSF signal intensity, without mass effect on the brain parenchyma.
4. Normal MR venogram of the brain.
MHH Brain wo contrast MRI
IMPRESSION: Extensive parenchymal abnormalities are detected.
1. Multifocal areas of diffusion restriction consistent with recent ischemic change in a distribution felt to indicate hypotensive or hypoxic ischemic event.
2. Cortical infarct in the left parietal lobe with hemorrhagic transformation. In this patient with evidence of venous sinus thrombosis contralaterally, this infarct could have been caused by a cortical vein thrombosis which is no longer visible directly.
3. Hemorrhagic transformation of a periventricular region of ischemia on the left to a greater degree than on the right. The latter 2 areas of hemorrhage account findings described on prior ultrasound.
4. Abnormal signal within the right transverse sinus. Please see discussion of the dedicated imaging study dictated separately.
Assessment:
Stroke type: CVST + arterial ischemic stroke with HT1 conversion
Etiology: critical illness with coagulopathy, now resolved
Mini-MACS: 1 - Handles objects easily and successfully. The child may have a slight limitation in performing actions that require precision and coordination between the hands but they can still perform them. The child may need somewhat more adult assistance when handling objects compared to other children of the same age.
GMFCS: not yet appropriate
Pediatric Stroke Outcome Measure -
Right sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Left sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Production: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Comprehension: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Comprehension/Behavioral: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Total: 0 at this time
The patient is a 5 month old child who developed multiple strokes (CVST + arterial ischemic) in the setting of critical illness, which is now resolved. He is adjusted about 4 months old, and currently meets his motor milestones (coos, working on rolling over) but is at high risk for developmental delay given his brain injuries. Will continue to follow closely.
Plan:  Further workup: none at this time
Stroke prevention: Discussed between myself and hematologist - I don't recommend aspirin for him at this time.
Rehab: PT/OTordered today. He is likely to have developmental delay
Re-imaging: None needed from my perspective
Anticonvulsant therapy: Keppra weight adjusted to 130mg BID
Follow up: in 3-4  months in clinic with me for developmental assessment.