30103
Dx:  Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis
The patient is a 4yo female with a past medical history of idiopathic CVST with hospitalization in October after her dog knocked her over, she was found to have very mild head trauma.
She is overall doing well. She is no longer taking Xarelto. History obtained per parents. She is not taking any medications as of now. Parents report that she has great energy levels, she is back to her regular energy level prior to hospitalization. Parents deny headaches, blurry vision, or N/V.  She has been seen by ophthalmology and her eyes are back to baseline.
Diagnosis
•	Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis
•	Anticoagulated
•	Acute idiopathic CVST
Medication
•	Histex PD 0.938 MG/ML liquid
•	Xarelto 1 MG/ML reconstituted suspension
Review of Systems
Constitutional: Negative for activity change and appetite change
HENT: Negative for ear discharge and drooling
Eyes: Negative for watery eyes, negative for redness
Respiratory: Negative for cough and choking
Cardiovascular: Negative for fatigue with feeds and cyanosis
GI: Negative for diarrhea, negative for constipation
Skin: Negative for pallor and rash
Neuro: Negative for seizures and facial asymmetry
Physical Exam:
Visit Vitals
BP	95/63 (BP Location: Right arm, Patient Position: Sitting)
Pulse	72
Temp	36.4 °C (97.6 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	1.02 m (3' 4.16")
Wt	15.5 kg (34 lb 3.2 oz)
BMI	14.91 kg/m²
Smoking Status	Never Assessed
BSA	0.66 m²
General: Active, alert, well-appearing
Head: Normocephalic
Eyes: PERRL, tracking movements, no conjunctival injection, no scleral icterus
Hearing: Responds to sounds and commands.
Speech: 2 word phrases occasionally said during encounter
Lungs: Non-labored breathing
Cardiovascular: No peri-oral cyanosis
Extremities: Full ROM including neck and spine, normal positioning.
Skin:  no other rashes, bruises, or bleeding seen
Neuro: DTR's 2/2, good tone, good strength, no ataxia.
Results/Data:
MRI
1.  Resolution of the previous right transverse sinus thrombosis. No new intracranial abnormality.
2.  No cerebral edema or gliosis.
3.  Stealth protocol for treatment planning.
MRV:
Appropriate flow signal and enhancement is present in the deep cerebral veins and in the major dural venous sinuses. No residual right transverse sinus large thrombus. Minimal areas of irregularity along the right transverse sinus walls without significant narrowing.
MRV Brain wo Contrast: Impression:
The thrombus burden in the right transverse sinus has decreased and there is increased flow signal in the lumen. Residual thrombus is noted predominantly in the lateral half.
Hypoplastic left transverse sinus with artifactual absence of flow signal at the junction of the left transverse and sigmoid sinus.
MRI Brain w and wo Contrast: Impression:
Right transverse sinus thrombosis, decreased from previous exam.
MRI Brain w and wo Contrast and MRV Brain wo Contrast: Impression:
1.  Thrombosis within the right transverse and proximal straight sinus (near the torcula).
2.  Indeterminate appearance of the left transverse sinus, more likely to be hypoplastic than thrombosed given the appearance of the postcontrast series.
3.  Normal MRI of the brain.
CT Brain wo Contrast: Impression:
Hyperdense material along the course of the straight and right proximal transverse sinuses concerning for sinus thrombosis. Further evaluation with MR venogram is recommended.
Assessment:
Stroke type: CVST
Etiology: Unknown
Mini-MACS: 1 - Handles objects easily and successfully. The child may have a slight limitation in performing actions that require precision and coordination between the hands but they can still perform them. The child may need somewhat more adult assistance when handling objects compared to other children of the same age.
GMFCS: Level 1: The patient can walk at home, school, outdoors and in the community. They can climb stairs without the use of a railing. The patient can perform gross motor skills such as running and jumping, but speed, balance and coordination are limited.
Pediatric Stroke Outcome Measure -
Right sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Left sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Production: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Comprehension: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Comprehension/Behavioral: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Total: 0
This is a 4 year old girl who presented with idiopathic CVST in the right transverse sinus. MRI previously showed  possible congenitally hypoplastic left transverse sinus but showed to be patent on recent MRI after Xarelto treatment. She is overall doing well and looks to be developing normally.
Plan:
- Return to clinic in 1 yr
- sending message to my colleagues in hematology to see if they have any more labs they'd like to send
