30116
Dx: Left Frontal Ischemic infarct, mild HIE, right brachial plexus injury
The patient is a 2 m.o. female referred for an initial evaluation in pediatric stroke clinic at the request of her physician because of left frontal ischemic infarct, mild HIE, right brachial plexus injury.  History is per mother and father and review of medical records made available.
She was born term but developed shoulder dystocia and was born with minimum respiratory effort, but reactivity improved with PPV. She went to the NICU and was cooled. There was reported clinical activity concerning for seizure, but no seizures on EEG, only encephalopy and sharp waves. Started on phenobarbital due to concern for seizures.
Since going home, her right arm has gotten stronger and parents say moves the same amount as the left. She has had no seizures, and parents actually weren't able to give her prescription for three days and still saw no seizures. They feel the medication makes her sleepy. Parents are young, and live with boyfriends mother, father.
Medication
•	PHENobarbital 20 MG/5ML elixir
Review of Systems
Constitutional:  Negative for activity change and appetite change.
HENT:  Negative for congestion and drooling.
Eyes:  Negative for discharge and redness.
Respiratory:  Negative for apnea and choking.
Cardiovascular:  Negative for fatigue with feeds and cyanosis.
Gastrointestinal:  Negative for abdominal distention and anal bleeding.
Genitourinary:  Negative for decreased urine volume and hematuria.
Musculoskeletal:  Negative for extremity weakness.
Skin:  Negative for color change.
Allergic/Immunologic: Negative for food allergies and immunocompromised state.
Neurological:  Negative for seizures and facial asymmetry.
Hematological:  Negative for adenopathy. Does not bruise/bleed easily.
Physical Exam:
Visit Vitals
BP	93/63 (BP Location: Right arm, Patient Position: Lying)
Temp	36.3 °C (97.3 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	59.5 cm
Wt	5.33 kg (11 lb 12 oz)
HC	37.5 cm (14.76")
BMI	15.06 kg/m²
BSA	0.3 m²
General: Active, alert, well-appearing.
Head: normocephalic, anterior fontanelle is open, soft, and flat, no clefts/pits/masses
Eyes: lids open, eyes clear without drainage, conjugate gaze
Ears: normally set, no pits and no tags
Nose: nares patent
Oropharynx: palate intact, moist mucous membranes
Chest: no retractions and no tachypnea
Cardiac: acyanotic
Abdomen: soft, non-tender, non-distended, no hepatosplenomegaly, no masses
Musculoskeletal: moves all extremities normally, no deformities or dysmorphic features
Back: spine intact, no tufts, no lesions, no dimples
Skin: clear, no birthmarks
Neurologic: symmetric facies, symmetric Moro, normal suck, normal tone and normal reflexes for gestational age
Outside studies:  Reviewed outside MRI
There is a small area of restriction diffusion in the left frontal lobe and a punctate area in the right parietal lobe. No IVH/hydrocephalus. In my opinion, changes seem consistent with HIE, though small emboli are on the differential.
Assessment:
Stroke type: Perinatal arterial ischemic vs HIE
Etiology: Perinatal depression
Mini-MACS: 1 - Handles objects easily and successfully. The child may have a slight limitation in performing actions that require precision and coordination between the hands but they can still perform them. The child may need somewhat more adult assistance when handling objects compared to other children of the same age.
Pediatric Stroke Outcome Measure -
Right sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Left sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Production: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Comprehension: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Comprehension/Behavioral: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Total: 0
Plan:
Further workup:  No further workup indicated as this was due to perinatal depression
Stroke prevention: not indicated given perinatal stroke.
Rehab: ECI referral for now as motor development is normal right now.
Re-imaging: Not indicated
Anticonvulsant therapy: will wean off phenobarbital and order 23hr EEG.
Follow up: in 3 months in clinic
