30112
Reason for Visit: Hospital Follow-up For Perinatal Stroke
History obtained from: parent and sister
History of Present Illness:  The patient is a 3 month-old male presenting for Hospital follow-up for perinatal arterial ischemic stroke. He was born at 38 4/7 weeks via C/S for NRFHT. APGARS 1 at 1 min, 2 and 5min and 5 and 5min, remained cyanotic w/o tone and could not be stimulated with desaturations to 20s, HR <100, and apnea. He was intubated but remained floppy and apneic, thus was transferred to NICU. He had severe metabolic acidosis 2/2 hypoxic injury at birth. Noted to have Moderate to Severe HIE s/p cooling in Winter. During cooling, was placed on cEEG, which noted 6 seizures all arising from R parietal region, which were controlled on PHB. Initial MRI Brain in January demonstrated R peri-rolandic ischemic insult with hemorrhagic transformation (HT2). MRA and MRV demonstrated that flow voids were preserved, no pathologic findings. Initial TTE demonstrated mildly dilated LV and LA with normal R heart dimensions. Following discharge, he was demonstrating FTT with poor feeding and suck s/p NGT for feeds. Repeat EEG in Winter demonstrate no further epileptogenicity, and given highly unlikely to have further seizures, patient's PHB was weaned off. Repeat TTE demonstrated LA thrombus, and he was initiated on anticoagulation therapy, repeat brain imaging demonstrated stable lesion w/o expansion. He has followed-up with Pedi Hematology in Spring, where partial hypercoagulability work-up was negative, and no familial history of bleeding/clotting disorders. He continues to follow-up with Pedi cardiology, last Spring, where partial TTE demonstrate near resolution of thrombus. He is still on lovenox, and is pending further coordination with cardiology for remaining duration.
Patient presents today with mother, alert, tracking with eyes. Mother states developmentally he has been doing well. He tracks, follows her with his eyes, he smiles and laughs and attempts to be engaged in conversations. His main concern now is his feeding, still has poor swallowing, can only tolerate a total of 10-15ml, not sufficient for optimal nutrition. He is pending G-tube placement next week. Otherwise, no concerns from neurological perspective as per mother. No focal weakness, no abnormal movements or shaking.
Review of Systems: Infant
GEN: no fever, no abnormal weight loss, no decrease in activity
EYES: no eye redness/discharge
ENT: no nose bleeding, runny nose
CARDIO: now swelling/edema
PULM: no shortness of breath, cough, wheezing
GI: no vomiting, diarrhea, constipation
GU: no change in frequency, +NG tube
NEURO: see HPI
ENDO: no wt loss, wt gain
SKIN: no rashes or lesions
MUSC: no extremity pain/deformity/swelling/redness
Birth History: born at 38 4/7 weeks via C/S for NRFHT. Complicated by HIE and perinatal arterial ischemic stroke.
Developmental history:
Smiles: 2 months
Past Medical History:
HIE, LA thrombus, FTT, Pulmonary HTN, NG tube dependent
Meds:
-Vit D
-Omeprazole
-Therapeutic Lovenox
Physical Exam:
Vitals: Temp:	36.7 °C (98.1 °F)
General: Active, alert, well-appearing.
Head: normocephalic, anterior fontanelle is open, soft, and flat, no clefts/pits/masses
Eyes: lids open, eyes clear without drainage, conjugate gaze
Ears: normally set, no pits and no tags
Nose: nares patent, NG Tube in place
Oropharynx: palate intact
Chest: no retractions and no tachypnea
Cardiac: acyanotic
Abdomen: soft, non-tender
Musculoskeletal: moves all extremities normally
Back: spine intact, no tufts, no lesions, no dimples
Skin: clear, no birthmarks
Neurologic: symmetric facies, PERRL, tracks appropriately, symmetric Moro, normal suck, normal tone and normal reflexes for gestational age. Moves all extremities evenly.
Imaging:
MRI Brain:
Images were reviewed at the request of the referring care team.
Changes in the perirolandic region of the right hemisphere most likely reflect ischemic infarction with subsequent hemorrhagic transformation in a gyriform pattern. There are small amount of surrounding vasogenic edema. There is a cephalhematoma over the parietal convexity. I do not see any fracture of the overlying skull to suggest contusion. The remainder the brain is unremarkable. The dural venous sinuses are patent.
MRA/MRV Brain:
No venous thrombosis, no arterial abnormality
TTE: Pulmonary HTN w/ LA/LV dilation mildly
TTE: Interval development of RA mural thrombus
Head U/S:
IMPRESSION:
1.  No acute intracranial hemorrhage.
2.  The previously identified small echogenic area in the right cerebral hemisphere corresponding to the previously seen ischemic infarct with hemorrhagic transformation in the right perirolandic region is not apparent on today's study. An MRI is a more sensitive study and can be obtained for further evaluation.
cEEG: R parietal seizures
rEEG: R Fronto-central asymmetry, but no epileptogenic discharges
Assessment:
3mo old former 38 4/7-weeker born via c/s 2/2 NRFHT c/b HIE/Perinatal arterial ischemic stroke and later RA mural thrombus presents to clinic for follow-up. No further neurological complains or concerns as per mother. Patient's stroke likely embolic of unknown origin. Pedi Heme hypercoagulability work-up negative so far and no strong family history of bleeding/clotting disorders. Likely due to perinatal insult +/- resuscitation efforts in setting of HIE. Overall he is doing well. Currently remains on anticoagulation for RA thrombus, with improvement in clot burden seen on repeat TTE. Has weaned off PHB successfully without further concerns for seizures or abnormal behavior/activity. Still dependent on enteral feeding, and pending G-tube placement next week. He is working with feeding therapy and will start PT soon
Stroke type: perinatal arterial ischemic stroke
Etiology: idiopathic
Mini-MACS: 1 - Handles objects easily and successfully. The child may have a slight limitation in performing actions that require precision and coordination between the hands but they can still perform them. The child may need somewhat more adult assistance when handling objects compared to other children of the same age.
Pediatric Stroke Outcome Measure -
Right sensorimotor: 0.5 - minimal to mild impairment, but normal function
Left sensorimotor: 0.5 - minimal to mild impairment, but normal function
Language Production: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Comprehension: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Comprehension/Behavioral: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Total: 1
Plan:
Further workup: hypercoagulability workup per hematology
Stroke prevention: Lovenox per hematology for cardiac thrombus.
Rehab: referral to PT/OT. Getting SLP
Re-imaging: not indicated at this time
Anticonvulsant therapy: weaned off of phenobarbital
Other Concerns: none
Follow up: in 3 months in clinic