30115
Diagnosis: injury of left vertebral artery, sequela
HPI: The patient is a 9 year old right handed male with a medical history of MVA s/p craniotomy for an open depressed skull fracture spring of last year. Patient was placed on Aspirin since the surgery. After the surgery, mom reports patient has been doing well. He did not require any physical therapy, he does not have trouble concentrating in school, and they have not noticed any focal deficits. Patient was referred by neurosurgery to determine if he needs to continue taking Aspirin. Mother would also like to discuss the CTA results and determine if he will be able to play baseball again.
Patient states he has headaches once a month in the frontal lobe, which they blame on dehydration. He states his headaches do not require any medications, rehydration tends to abort the headache.
Patient Active Problem List
Diagnosis
•	Open fracture of frontal bone with routine healing
Surgical History
•	CRANIOTOMY
Medications
•	[DISCONTINUED] aspirin 325 MG tablet
Review of Systems
Constitutional:  Negative for activity change and appetite change.
HENT:  Negative for drooling and ear discharge.
Eyes:  Negative for discharge and itching.
Respiratory:  Negative for choking and chest tightness.
Cardiovascular:  Negative for chest pain and leg swelling.
Gastrointestinal:  Negative for abdominal distention and abdominal pain.
Endocrine: Negative for cold intolerance and heat intolerance.
Genitourinary:  Negative for difficulty urinating and dysuria.
Musculoskeletal:  Negative for arthralgias and back pain.
Skin:  Negative for color change and pallor.
Physical Exam:
Visit Vitals
BP	113/72 (BP Location: Right arm, Patient Position: Sitting)
Temp	36.3 °C (97.3 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	1.512 m (4' 11.53")
Wt	51.6 kg (113 lb 12.8 oz)
BMI	22.58 kg/m²
Smoking Status	Never Assessed
BSA	1.47 m²
Physical Exam:
General: Active, alert, well-appearing.
Head: Normocephalic and well healed scar.
Ears: Canals clear.
Hearing: Grossly intact.
Speech: Adequate vocabulary, no impediments.
Nose: Pink nasal turbinates, septum is midline. No drainage or deformities.
Pharynx: Mouth pink, mucous membranes moist. No tonsillar enlargement, exudate, or erythema.
Lungs: Comfortable on room air.
Cardiovascular: Acyanotic, good capillary refill.
Spine: Straight, no defects, no scoliosis.
Extremities: Full ROM, no deformities
Skin: Clear, no rashes or lesions.
Neurologic Exam:
Appropriately oriented to time, place, and person
Recent/remote memory appropriate for age
Attention span/concentration appropriate for age
Speech/Language: non-dysarthric, no impediments, fluent
Fund of knowledge appropriate for age
Visual fields full to confrontation; fundi benign bilaterally (CNII)
Pupils equal, round and reactive to light and accommodation; extraocular movements full and intact (CN III, IV, VI)
Facial sensation and muscles of mastication normal (CN V)
Face appears and moves symmetrically (CN VII)
Hearing grossly intact bilaterally (CN VIII)
Palate elevates symmetrically (CN IX)
Shoulder shrug equal with good strength (CN XI)
Tongue protrusion midline, no evidence of tongue atrophy or fasciculations (CN XII)
Sensation grossly intact
Motor: normal bulk
Strength:
RUE- Deltoid 5/5, Triceps 5/5, Biceps 5/5, Wrist flexion 5/5, Wrist extension 5/5
LUE- Deltoid 5/5, Triceps 5/5, Biceps 5/5, Wrist flexion 5/5, Wrist extension 5/5
RLE- Iliopsoas 5/5, Knee extension 5/5, Knee flexion 5/5, Ankle dorsiflexion 5/5, plantarflexion 5/5
LLE- Iliopsoas 5/5, Knee extension 5/5, Knee flexion 5/5, Ankle dorsiflexion 5/5, plantarflexion 5/5
Tone: normal and symmetric throughout
Gait: normal heel, toe and tandem/ appropriate for age; no ataxia
Station: negative Romberg
Coordination/Movements: normal for age and symmetric; no tremor or abnormal movements
Results/Data:
Imaging:
CTA Neck - 1.  Short segment occlusion of the proximal V3 segment of the left vertebral artery. Findings indicate traumatic injury. There is no extraluminal extravasated contrast. The left vertebral artery is nondominant.
CTA Brain and Neck:
1.  Persistent short segment occlusion of the nondominant left vertebral artery at the level of C2-C3, in keeping with prior trauma. The remainder of the left vertebral artery opacifies with contrast however it is diminutive in caliber and decreased in caliber compared to the initial CTA.
2.  Remaining arteries in the head and neck are unremarkable and without evidence of vascular injury.
Assessment:
Stroke type:  Arteriopathy without stroke - grade IV injury of left vertebral artery C2-C3
Etiology: Trauma
Mini-MACS: 1 - Handles objects easily and successfully. The child may have a slight limitation in performing actions that require precision and coordination between the hands but they can still perform them. The child may need somewhat more adult assistance when handling objects compared to other children of the same age.
GMFCS: Level 1: The patient can walk at home, school, outdoors and in the community. They can climb stairs without the use of a railing. The patient can perform gross motor skills such as running and jumping, but speed, balance and coordination are limited.
Pediatric Stroke Outcome Measure -
Right sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Left sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Production: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Comprehension: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Comprehension/Behavioral: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Total: 0
This is a 9 year old male presenting 10 months after a major trauma requiring repair of a depressed skull fracture. He was noted to have left vertebral artery injury on screening CTA at arrival, which was reevaluated now 10 months later and remains closed off. There have been very few long term studies on these cervical artery injuries on children with trauma, but given his vertebral artery remains occluded, it is very unlikely for this artery to spontaneously recanalize. Consequently, I recommend he continue aspirin, though I think it is safe to lower the dose to 81mg daily.
Plan:
Further workup: none at this time
Stroke prevention: aspirin 81mg daily
Rehab: no need - he has returned to baseline and is doing well in school.
Re-imaging: None planned at this time. In several years it may be reasonable to image again if he'd like to try one last time to wean off of aspirin, but I think further radiation exposure outweighs the risk of taking aspirin, especially given that it is unlikely for the artery to recanalize.
Anticonvulsant therapy: none
Follow up: in 6 months.