30118
Dx: Childhood Ischemic Stroke secondary to venous outflow obstruction from achondroplasia, Neurocognitive deficit secondary to ischemic infarction, Achondroplasia
The patient is an 8-year- old male with achondroplasia and a history of bilateral watershed stroke secondary to acute hydrocephalus who is presenting to Pediatric Stroke Clinic for follow up evaluation of his stroke. He unfortunately suffered watershed infarcts secondary to acute hydrocephalusin the past. He had a programmable shunt placement afterwards and is followed by a neurosurgeon. He was on aspirin for 3 years after the event, and discontinued it three years later. He had been on keppra as well, but that was discontinued after he had a normal 23hr EEG the same year. He sees me for his headaches and stroke history. Similar to his last visit, they are at the 'top' of his head, mild to severe, and last a few hours, and he will usually try to sleep when he has them. He takes only scheduled guanfacine and valproic acid. He has headaches maybe once a week as well as 'anxiety attacks' where he will scream or cry. Sometimes if a panic attack continues it may lead to headache. He continues to have attention difficulties in school, but thankfully completed a neuropsych evaluation and has an IEP in place. It was consistent with ADHD with most performance quotients in the normal to low normal range. He can't take stimulants however as they lead to motor tics.
Since the last visit, he has developed worsening constipation for which he receives senna and occasionally enemas. His headaches continue to interfere with sleep maybe once every 1-2 weeks.
Past Medical History
Patient Active Problem List
Diagnosis
•	Achondroplasia
•	Congenital hydrocephalus
•	S/P VP shunt
•	Dwarf, achondroplastic
•	Sinusitis
•	Need for vaccination
•	Migraines
•	Venous anomaly
•	Language delay
•	Ischemic stroke
•	Intracranial shunt
•	Hearing loss
•	Enlarged tonsils and adenoids
•	Adenoid hypertrophy
•	Decreased functional mobility
•	Contusion of left leg
•	Chronic middle ear effusion, bilateral
•	Attention and concentration deficit
•	Allergic rhinitis
•	Acute otitis media
•	Hemiplegia and hemiparesis following cerebral infarction affecting left non-dominant side
Surgical History
Past Surgical History:
•	NASOLACRIMAL DUCT PROBING W/ INSERTION OF STENT
•	Laminectomy With Release Of Tethered Spinal Cord
•	Shunting Procedures
•	TYMPANOSTOMY TUBE PLACEMENT
Medications:
Elavil 5mg at bedtime
Valproic acid 250mg/5mL. Take 2.5ml BID
Review of Systems
Constitutional:  Negative for activity change and appetite change.
HENT:  Negative for congestion and dental problem.
Eyes:  Negative for discharge and itching.
Respiratory:  Negative for choking and chest tightness.
Cardiovascular:  Negative for chest pain and leg swelling.
Gastrointestinal:  Negative for blood in stool and constipation.
Endocrine: Negative for cold intolerance and heat intolerance.
Genitourinary:  Negative for difficulty urinating and dysuria.
Allergic/Immunologic: Negative for environmental allergies and food allergies.
Neurological:  Negative for dizziness and facial asymmetry.
Hematological:  Negative for adenopathy. Does not bruise/bleed easily.
Psychiatric/Behavioral:  Negative for agitation and behavioral problems.
GEN: awake and alert, well-nourished, crying as he currently has a headache. Short stature with typical bony features of achondroplasia
HEENT:  no clefts/pits/masses; no dysmorphic facial features
CHEST: equal chest rise. Breathing non labored
HEART: acyanotic
EXTREMITIES: normal digits, no sacral pits or dimples
SKIN: no lesions, rash, cafe au lait spots
NEUROLOGICAL EXAMINATION:
MS: awake, alert, distractible. Engages appropriately when asked about topics of interest (sonic the hedgehog, friends at school)
CN II-XII:  intact
MOTOR EXAMINATION
Mass:               Normal             For underlying genetic condition
Tone:                Normal
Strength:          Normal
DTR’s:   2/2 throughout
Sensation:        Intact
Gait/Station:    Normal
Cerebellum:     Normal
Images of MRI brain/spine reviewed
Assessment:
The patient is an 8 year old male with a history of stroke as above following up for management of his stroke complications. He's doing well now off of antiepileptics and aspirin. His headaches, unfortunately, are still bothersome, but are known to be associated with anxiety and we are treating them appropriately. New headache types should be taken very seriously given his history of shunt, but we will continue to treat his chronic headaches with valproic acid. Additionally, will trial zofran 4mg, benadryl 20mg + ibuprofen when he has breakthrough headaches.
Assessments:
Mini-MACS: 1
GMFCS: 1
Pediatric Stroke Outcome Measure -
Right sensorimotor score: 0
Left sensorimotor score: 0
Language deficit Production: 0.5
Language deficit Comprehension: 0.5
Cognitive or Behavioral: 0
Total score: 1
Plan:
Further workup: Not indicated. His etiology is known
Stroke prevention: Off of antiplatelet. Not indicated currently
Rehab: He is getting therapies at school. Recommend he continue to get support at school and follow the recommendations of his neuropsychologist. I provided mother with a school letter.
Re-imaging: Unlikely to need repeat MRI/MRA/MRV for now. Will hold off
Anticonvulsant therapy: Off keppra, though he is getting valproic acid for headache prophylaxis
Other Concerns: Headaches. Continue valproic acid 125mg BID. Benadryl 20mg + zofran 4mg + ibuprofen if he has breakthrough headaches.
Follow up: follow up in 4-6 months in clinic