30120
Dx: Right middle cerebral artery stroke
The patient is a 13 y.o. male referred for an initial evaluation in pediatric stroke clinic at the request of his physicians because of a history of Focal Cerebral Arteriopathy. History is per grandfather and review of medical records made available. He presented to the hospital with left arm weakness on. He had an NIHSS of 3 (2 for arm drift, 1 for leg drift) and a CTA that was initially read as normal, as well as a right basal ganglia/internal capsule stroke and some narrowing visible on MRA the following day in the proximal M1.
He stayed in the hospital on aspirin for 5 days, and repeat MRI/MRA demonstrated a small dissection flap and worsened narrowing of the right M1. I started him on steroids per the PASTA protocol and a 1 month steroid taper. He went to rehabilitation at TCH. I repeated an MRI/MRA 1 month post steroids which revealed no new infarction and some mild improvement in the M1 narrowing.
Today, he is doing well. Hesitates his arm feels totally normal and he is back in school. He endorses no new weakness. He is seeing a physical therapist at his home.
Medicines:
Aspirin 81mg daily
Review of Systems
Constitutional:  Negative for activity change and appetite change.
HENT:  Negative for congestion and drooling.
Eyes:  Negative for discharge and itching.
Respiratory:  Negative for choking and chest tightness.
Cardiovascular:  Negative for chest pain.
Gastrointestinal:  Negative for abdominal pain and constipation.
Endocrine: Negative for cold intolerance and heat intolerance.
Genitourinary:  Negative for difficulty urinating and dysuria.
Musculoskeletal:  Negative for back pain and gait problem.
Skin:  Negative for pallor and rash.
Physical Exam:
Visit Vitals
BP	117/68 (BP Location: Right arm, Patient Position: Sitting)
Pulse	85
Temp	36.8 °C (98.2 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	1.619 m (5' 3.75")
Wt	51.6 kg (113 lb 12.8 oz)
BMI	19.69 kg/m²
Smoking Status	Never Assessed
BSA	1.52 m²
General: Active, alert, well-appearing.
Head: Normocephalic and atraumatic.
Skin: Clear, no rashes or lesions.
Neurologic Exam:
Appropriately oriented to time, place, and person
Recent/remote memory appropriate for age
Attention span/concentration appropriate for age
Speech/Language: non-dysarthric, no impediments, fluent
Fund of knowledge appropriate for age
Visual fields full to confrontation; fundi benign bilaterally (CNII)
Pupils equal, round and reactive to light; extraocular movements full and intact (CN III, IV, VI)
Facial sensation and muscles of mastication normal (CN V)
Face appears and moves symmetrically (CN VII)
Hearing grossly intact bilaterally (CN VIII)
Palate elevates symmetrically (CN IX)
Shoulder shrug equal with good strength (CN XI)
Tongue protrusion midline, no evidence of tongue atrophy or fasciculations (CN XII)
Sensation grossly intact
Reflexes:
R Triceps 2+, Biceps 2+, Brachioradialis 2+, Patellar 2+, Ankle 2+
L Triceps 2+, Biceps 2+, Brachioradialis 2+, Patellar 2+, Ankle 2+
Plantar response downgoing
Motor: normal bulk
Strength:
RUE- Deltoid 5/5, Triceps 5/5, Biceps 5/5, Wrist flexion 5/5, Wrist extension 5/5
LUE- Deltoid 5/5, Triceps 5/5, Biceps 5/5, Wrist flexion 4+/5, Wrist extension 4+/5
RLE- Iliopsoas 5/5, Knee extension 5/5, Knee flexion 5/5, Ankle dorsiflexion 5/5, plantarflexion 5/5
LLE- Iliopsoas 5/5, Knee extension 5/5, Knee flexion 5/5, Ankle dorsiflexion 5/5, plantarflexion 5/5 Tone: normal and symmetric throughout
Gait: normal heel, toe and tandem/ appropriate for age; no ataxia
Station: negative Romberg
Coordination/Movements: normal for age and symmetric; no tremor or abnormal movements
Results/Data:
Outside studies:  Reviewed prior MRIs - his most recent MRI in May 2023 shows improvement of his
Assessment:
Stroke type: Arterial Ischemic Stroke, Right Middle Cerebral Artery
Etiology: Focal Cerebral Arteriopathy, suspect dissection subtype
Mini-MACS: 2 - Handles most objects, but with somewhat reduced quality and/or speed of achievement. Some actions can only be performed and accomplished with some difficulty and after practice. The child may try an alternative approach, such as using only one hand. The child need adult assistance to handle objects more frequently compared to children at the same age.
GMFCS: Level 1: The patient can walk at home, school, outdoors and in the community. They can climb stairs without the use of a railing. The patient can perform gross motor skills such as running and jumping, but speed, balance and coordination are limited.
Pediatric Stroke Outcome Measure -
Right sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Left sensorimotor: 0.5 - minimal to mild impairment, but normal function
Language Production: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Comprehension: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Comprehension/Behavioral: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Total: 0.5
The patient is a 13 year old who had focal cerebral arteriopathy. He had a dissection flap, but I was still suspicious for inflammatory subtype given he had a cold 4 weeks prior to presentation and progression 5 days later clinical course. He did well receiving steroids as well as aspirin monotherapy and has almost completely recovered, though his hand weakness is still noticeable on strength testing. I suspect he will do well overall. I will continue him on aspirin for stroke prevention, likely for the next two years.
Plan:
Further workup: Will discuss genetic testing with patient at next visit.
Stroke prevention: Aspirin 81mgdaily for now. Prescription sent. He will need to continue it for a minimum of two years
Rehab: Continue home PT/OT
Re-imaging: To complete a repeat MRI summer next year.
Anticonvulsant therapy: Not indicated
Follow up: in 6 months in clinic. Will repeat imaging afterwards.
