30129
Dx: Ischemic stroke of L MCA, R PCA and epilepsy
HPI:
Patient is a 9 m.o. male referred for a follow evaluation in pediatric stroke clinic at the request of physicians because of ischemic L MCA and R PCA strokes with subsequent seizures while in the NICU. History is per both parents and review of medical records made available from hospital. Due to arrest of labor, he was born via emergency c-section prematurely. At 1 minute of life, he wasn't breathing and was intubated by 4 minutes of life. He was extubated at 8 hours of life. Around 12 hours of life, parents witnessed a clinical seizure. He was loaded with phenobarbital and EEG continued to show subclinical seizures. Keppra was added and this stopped all subclinical seizures. He remained pretty sedated and lethargic for the first 2 weeks of life. A few days before discharge, he was weaned off the Phenobarb and left on Keppra with no more seizure activity. He became more active and alert during this time and started feeding better and was discharged at 16 days of life. MRI revealed a left MCA stroke and Right PCA stroke, and workup - echo/MRA/MRV/
Today, father accompanies the patient. He is doing well at today's visit. He gets frequent private therapies and is in day care. He is now bringing both hands together, working on pulling to stand, and coos. He has stranger anxiety now, which is developmentally appropriate. Father works on modified constraint therapy at home when playing with him.
Review of Systems
Constitutional:  Negative for activity change, appetite change and fever.
HENT:  Negative for rhinorrhea and sneezing.
Eyes:  Negative for discharge and redness.
Respiratory:  Negative for cough and choking.
Cardiovascular:  Negative for fatigue with feeds and cyanosis.
Gastrointestinal:  Negative for abdominal distention, constipation, diarrhea and vomiting.
Musculoskeletal:  Negative for extremity weakness.
Skin:  Negative for rash.
Neurological:  Negative for seizures and facial asymmetry.
Physical Exam:
Visit Vitals
Temp	36.7 °C (98.1 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	76 cm
Wt	9.48 kg (20 lb 14.4 oz)
HC	43 cm (16.93")
BMI	16.41 kg/m²
BSA	0.45 m²
General: Active, alert, well-appearing.
Head: Brachycephalic, anterior fontanelle is open, soft, and flat
Eyes: lids open, eyes clear without drainage, conjugate gaze
Ears: normally set, no pits and no tags
Nose: nares patent
Oropharynx: palate intact, moist mucous membranes
Chest: no retractions and no tachypnea
Cardiac: acyanotic
Abdomen: soft, non-tender, non-distended, no hepatosplenomegaly, no masses
Musculoskeletal: moves all extremities normally, no deformities or dysmorphic features
Back: spine intact, no tufts, no lesions, no dimples
Skin: clear, no birthmarks
Neurologic: symmetric facies, symmetric Moro, very slightly increased tone in the right. He does have increased spontaneous movement of the left hand, but he can bring both to midline.  His left arm is dominant but he can grasp objects with the right and pass them hand to hand.
Results/Data:
Component
•	EEGREPORT
Comment: This is an abnormal 24-hour continuous video EEG for age due to occasional sharply-contoured slowing and epileptiform discharges noted most prominently over the left temporal or temporo-parietal region as well as independently over the right temporo-parietal or right fronto-temporal areas. These findings are suggestive of cortical dysfunction and epileptogenicity involving the regions described. There are no push button events and no clinical or electrographic seizures are recorded.
Outside studies:
EEG: normal
EEG: multifocal sharp waves, slowing over left temporal region
Assessment:
Stroke type: perinatal ischemic L MCA, ischemic R PCA
Etiology: Perinatal depression
Mini-MACS: 2 - Handles most objects, but with somewhat reduced quality and/or speed of achievement. Some actions can only be performed and accomplished with some difficulty and after practice. The child may try an alternative approach, such as using only one hand. The child need adult assistance to handle objects more frequently compared to children at the same age.
GMFCS: Not yet appropriate
The patient is a 9 month old with perinatal arterial ischemic stroke, who has developed a left hand preference but has partially intact function of the right arm and clinically appears better than I would have expected. I think this is due to the excellent rehabilitation therapy follow up he has gotten thanks to the efforts of his family. He does still have some left arm preference, and would be a good candidate for constraint induced movement therapy. I think he is at very low risk for further seizures, and will wean off of his antiepileptics after discussing with father.
PSOM:
Left Sensorimotor: 0
Right Sensorimotor: 1
Language Expression: 0
Language Comprehension: 0
Behavioral/Cognitive: 0
Total: 1
Plan:
Further workup: none at this time
Stroke prevention: None
Rehab: Continue Therapies through ECI, PT/OT
Re-imaging: not indicated
Anticonvulsant therapy: Wean off of keppra.  Clonazepam sent to pharmacy in case he has a seizure
Follow up: 3-4 months in clinic for developmental assessment
I will refer him for I-ACQUIRE evaluation.





