30128
Initial HPI: The patient is a 11 y.o. righthanded female referred for an initial evaluation in pediatric stroke clinic at the request of her physician because of a recent L MCA ischemic infarction.  History is per mother and review of medical records made available. Patient initially had the flu, and a few weeks later was brought to the hospital because of altered mentation, fevers, and headache, ultimately found to have a Group A Strep Meningitis. She was in status so was given Keppra and transferred to another city as the other hospitals were full and she needed to be on a continuous EEG. She was intubated for airway protection and then showed signs of septic shock requiring pressors. cvEEG at the hospital did not show any epileptiform activity. She was intubated for 12 days with Neurology, Neurosurgery and ID following for the meningitis, seizures, and a subdural empyema that the primary team was concerned about. While they were evaluating, one of the teams then noticed that she was no longer responding on her right side, so they got brain imaging completed that showed a Left MCA syndrome with vessels most consistent with vasculitis. ECHO was completed with no concern of thrombus or PFO.
After she was extubated they were able to tell she was not moving her right side and was having difficulty with words. She was struggling the most with English as it was her second language. After discharge, she went to IPR where she had significant improvement in her walking and talking, but is still not back to normal. Mom is most concerned about her fatigue, as she seems to be tired all the time. She does not feel like she is back to her normal level of intelligence as she is still relearning a lot of words. She is walking but still not well. She continues to take ASA 81 and Keppra 900 BID for stroke and seizure prevention.
Interval History: The patient returns with both parents for follow-up of her stroke and epilepsy. She is doing well - her parents feel she has continued to improve but isn't back to normal yet. She is walking well and using her right hand normally but still complains of mild heaviness. Speech in her native Spanish is very good but parents say she is still having trouble translating to English for them. Her memory is still impaired but has improved. She is doing home schooling for 2 hours twice a week and plans to return to normal school at the beginning of next year. She is still wearing a R ankle brace but is having no issues ambulating without it. She finished her therapy services three weeks ago and they are applying for an extension of benefits on her behalf. She continues to be seizure free, they deny staring spells.
Interval History: The patient was taken to the hospital in Spring due to dizziness and heaviness in the RLE. In the ED, a CTH was done and ruled out an intracranial abnormality. A couple days before this admission she was having upper respiratory symptoms and diarrhea. The patient was also complaining of right eye visual loss, for which an MRI of the orbits was done and showed no acute changes. An EEG was done and determined that the patient was in focal status epilepticus, for which she was intubated and given Ativan, Keppra, and Fosphenytoin. She was able to be discharged home with Keppra 2g BID and Oxcarbazepine 300 mg BID. Since then, she has been stable. Does not complain of visual abnormalities, her strength remains the same as her baseline after the stroke. She finished school and wants to go to a summer program. Still waiting for authorization to continue PT, OT, and ST. Has not had any side effects related to the medications, although sometimes feels tired.
Medication
•	Aspirin Low Dose 81 MG EC tablet
•	clonazePAM (KlonoPIN) 2 MG disintegrating tablet
Review of Systems
Constitutional:  Positive for fatigue. Negative for appetite change, fever and irritability.
HENT: Negative.
Eyes: Negative.
Respiratory: Negative.
Cardiovascular: Negative.
Gastrointestinal: Negative.
Endocrine: Negative.
Genitourinary: Negative.
Musculoskeletal: Negative.
Skin: Negative.
Neurological:  Positive for weakness. Negative for dizziness, seizures, syncope and facial asymmetry.
Psychiatric/Behavioral:  Negative for dysphoric mood and sleep disturbance. The patient is not nervous/anxious and is not hyperactive.
Physical Exam:
Visit Vitals
BP	119/81 (BP Location: Right arm, Patient Position: Sitting)
Pulse	108
Temp	36.6 °C (97.9 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	1.524 m (5')
Wt	46.9 kg (103 lb 6.4 oz)
BMI	20.19 kg/m²
Smoking Status	Never Assessed
BSA	1.41 m²
General: Active, alert, well-appearing.
Head: Normocephalic and atraumatic.
Hearing: Grossly intact.
Speech: Decreased baseline vocabulary, no impediments.
Pharynx: Mouth pink, mucous membranes moist. No tonsillar enlargement, exudate, or erythema.
Lungs: Comfortable on room air.
Cardiovascular: Acyanotic, good capillary refill.
Extremities: Full ROM, no deformities
Skin: Clear, no rashes or lesions.
Neurologic Exam:
Appropriately oriented to time, place, and person
Decreased recent memory
Attention span/concentration decreased for age
Speech/Language: is able to communicate clearly in Spanish, some word-finding difficulties and problems with fluency in English
Visual fields full to confrontation; fundi benign bilaterally (CNII)
Pupils equal, round and reactive to light and accommodation; extraocular movements full and intact (CN III, IV, VI)
Facial sensation and muscles of mastication normal (CN V)
Face appears and moves symmetrically (CN VII)
Hearing grossly intact bilaterally (CN VIII)
Palate elevates symmetrically (CN IX)
Shoulder shrug equal with good strength (CN XI)
Tongue extends directly, no evidence of tongue atrophy or fasciculations (CN XII)
Sensation grossly intact
Reflexes:
R Triceps 1+, Biceps 2+ w/ spread, Brachioradialis 1+, Patellar 1+, Ankle 1+
L Triceps 1+, Biceps 1+, Brachioradialis 1+, Patellar 1+, Ankle 1+
Motor: decreased bulk
Strength:
RUE- Deltoid 4/5, Triceps 5-/5, Biceps 4+/5, Wrist flexion 5-/5, Wrist extension 4+/5
LUE- Deltoid 5/5, Triceps 5/5, Biceps 5/5, Wrist flexion 5/5, Wrist extension 5/5
RLE- Iliopsoas 4+/5, Knee extension 5-/5, Knee flexion 5-/5, Ankle dorsiflexion 5/5, plantarflexion 5/5
LLE- Iliopsoas 5/5, Knee extension 5/5, Knee flexion 5/5, Ankle dorsiflexion 5/5, plantarflexion 5/5 Tone: normal and symmetric throughout
Gait: normal heel, toe and tandem/ appropriate for age; no ataxia
Coordination/Movements: circumduction with right leg
Results/Data:
MRI/MRA:
1.  Extensive left hemispheric predominantly cortical parenchymal injury and volume loss, likely related to history of meningitis and associated left MCA territory stroke related to vasculitis.
2.  Diffuse left hippocampal volume loss, suggestive of left-sided mesial temporal sclerosis which could be sequela of patient's known prior vascular insult +/- epilepsy.
3.  Diffuse mild asymmetric decrease in caliber of the left middle cerebral artery and branch vessels compared to the right, also likely related to history of meningitis and associated left MCA territory vasculitis. No focal stenosis or occlusion identified.
4.  Incidental note of 2 mm focal outpouching from the lateral wall of the posterior aspect of the horizontal trunk of the right cavernous internal carotid artery, may represent a small saccular aneurysm. As per patient's Epic chart history, patient had prior CT angiogram of the head and neck which is not available for comparison. Correlation with prior CT angiogram of the head is recommended.
Ancillary Procedure
•	EEG REPORT	Comment: This is an abnormal awake and asleep 48 hour ambulatory EEG
There is loss of faster frequencies and decreased amplitude in the left hemisphere suggestive of focal cerebral dysfunction in this region and consistent with patient's known history of left MCA infarct. There were no epileptiform discharges push button events or seizures.
Outside studies:  Pending MRI brain from OSH
Assessment:
Stroke type: Ischemic
Etiology: Vasculitis 2/2 Meningitis
Mini-MACS: 1 - Handles objects easily and successfully. The child may have a slight limitation in performing actions that require precision and coordination between the hands but they can still perform them. The child may need somewhat more adult assistance when handling objects compared to other children of the same age.
GMFCS: Level 3: The patient may walk using a hand-held mobility device in most indoor settings. They may climb stairs holding onto a railing with supervision or assistance. Children use wheeled mobility when traveling long distances and may self-propel for shorter distances.  or Level 4: The patient use methods of mobility that require physical assistance or powered mobility in most settings. They may walk for short distances at home with physical assistance or use powered mobility or a body support walker when positioned. At school, outdoors and in the community the patient is transported in a manual wheelchair or use powered mobility.
Pediatric Stroke Outcome Measure -
Right sensorimotor: 0.5 - minimal to mild impairment, but normal function
Left sensorimotor: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Production: 0.5 - minimal to mild impairment, but normal function
Language Comprehension: 0.5 - minimal to mild impairment, but normal function
Comprehension/Behavioral: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Total: 2
The patient is an 11 year old female with recent meningitis that resulted in a vasculitis causing seizures and a L MCA ischemic infarct. The patient has had progressive recovering, although with recent adjustment of Keppra dose had a breakthrough seizure in the setting of infection. Will continue current medications at the same dose, and will re-evaluate her in 3 months to decide if tapering can be considered.
Plan:
Stroke prevention: ASA 81mg
Rehab: Pending extension of PT/OT/ST
Anticonvulsant therapy: Continue Keppra 2g BID and Oxcarbazepine 300 mg BID; rescue Clonazepam provided
Other Concerns: I will send a letter for her to resume school and be able to participate in the summer program
Labs sent today per mother's concern for paleness and to monitor for hyponatremia on oxcarbazepine.
Follow up: 3 months


