30127
Reason for Visit: Stroke hospital follow up
History of Present Illness:
The patient is a 5 month old undecided handed male with PMH HIE and emergent C-section 2/2 NRFHT. Patient was at Hospital when mother came in for 2 days of decreased fetal movement. Found to have NRFHT so emergent C-section done and admitted to NICU for respiratory failure. During NICU stay found to have lip smacking and decerebrate posturing in the BUE with cEEG showing frequent electrographic seizures. Started on PHB with resolution of seizures.  MRI brain in the NICU stay was found to have regional areas of acute ischemia evident primarily in the left hemisphere with complete involvement of the corpus callosum suggestive HIE and L PCA/MCA infarct.
I saw him at 2 months of age and he was doing well overall. I requested an ambulatory EEG at the time due to episodes of eye rolling. His ambulatory EEG demonstrated frequent discharges concerning for spasms, but the camera was not on him during the EEG stay. I referred him to the ER and he was admitted to the PEMU. He had a 2 day stay which revealed no seizures, but frequent focal epileptiform discharges and his phenobarbital was increased. He has been doing well since going home, per parents. The eye rolling events did not change in frequency. He did have some episodes of electrodecrement but no definite seizures over his 3 day PEMU stay.
Birth History: born at 39 weeks, via emergent C-section for NRFHT. Complications during pregnancy/at birth: Mother GBS positive. NICU stay for respiratory distress with total body cooling protocol
Meds:
-PHB 24 mg BID ( 6 mg/kg/day)
Physical Exam:
Temp:	36.6 °C (97.8 °F)
Newborn
General: Active, alert, well-appearing.
Head: normocephalic, anterior fontanelle is open, soft, and flat, no clefts/pits/masses
Eyes: lids open, eyes clear without drainage, conjugate gaze
Ears: normally set, no pits and no tags
Nose: nares patent
Oropharynx: palate intact, moist mucous membranes
Chest: no retractions and no tachypnea
Cardiac: acyanotic
Abdomen: soft, non-tender, non-distended, no hepatosplenomegaly, no masses
Musculoskeletal: moves all extremities normally, no deformities or dysmorphic features
Back: spine intact, no tufts, no lesions, no dimples
Neurologic: symmetric facies, has frequent back arching and non-purposeful arm movements. Coos but doesn't babble.
Reaches for bottle,
Patellar reflexes 2+.
Tone increased in right upper extremity
Diagnostics:
Labs:
Newborn screen normal
PHB level: 23.3
Imaging:
MRI brain w/o: Regional areas of acute ischemia evident primarily in the left hemisphere with complete involvement of the corpus callosum. Cortical ribbon like areas of increased T1 signal are evident adjacent to the left greater than right sylvian fissure suggesting some hemorrhagic conversion. No congenital abnormalities evident
Other:
Assessment:
Stroke type: perinatal arterial ischemic stroke
Etiology: perinatal depression
Mini-MACS: 2 - Handles most objects, but with somewhat reduced quality and/or speed of achievement. Some actions can only be performed and accomplished with some difficulty and after practice. The child may try an alternative approach, such as using only one hand. The child need adult assistance to handle objects more frequently compared to children at the same age.
Pediatric Stroke Outcome Measure -
Right sensorimotor: 1 - moderate impairment, decreased function
Left sensorimotor: 0.5 - minimal to mild impairment, but normal function
Language Production: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Comprehension: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Comprehension/Behavioral: 1 - moderate impairment, decreased function
Total: 2.5
The patient is a 5 month old undecided handed male with PMH HIE and left MCA/PCA infarct and emergent C-section 2/2 NRFHT here for post hospitalization follow up from a NICU stay complicated by seizures and MRI concerning for HIE and stroke.
He had frequent, multifocal epileptiform discharges on EEG and a disorganized background in his PEMU stay, but did not have any clear seizures. Mother does not report any episodes concerning for spasms at this time. He has not had any unresponsive shaking/jerking episodes.
Plan:
Further workup: none at this time, etiology known
Stroke prevention: none
Rehab: PT/OT/SLP ordered today and faxed by therapist
Re-imaging: not indicated
Anticonvulsant therapy: Continue Phenobarbital at 6mg/kg/day
Other Concerns: He had a disorganized background and brief periods of electrodecrement during sleep in his 3 day EEG stay. No reports of spasms like episodes at this visit, but his EEG and exam are consistent with an epileptic encephalopathy. I will follow him closely in clinic, with PEMU reevaluation if he develops overt signs of spasm. For now, continue to treat on phenobarbital.
Follow up: 2-3 months in clinic.
Plan:
-Continue PHB at 6mg/kg/day. PT/OT/SLP
-Follow up in stroke clinic in 2-3 months.