30129
Interim History:
The patient is accompanied by his father and maternal grandmother today. They have noticed no seizure like activity. He is social and is working on sitting on his own. He is getting over a cold currently.  Father has started to notice a left hand preference and does intermittent right hand restriction to help with development. He is wearing a molding helmet today.
Past Medical History
Ischemic L MCA and R PCA strokes with resultant seizure
Prematurity
No surgical history
No Known Allergies
Outpatient Meds: Keppra 160mg q12h
Family History: Mother and father healthy.
Review of Systems
Constitutional:  Negative for activity change, appetite change and fever.
HENT:  Negative for rhinorrhea and sneezing.
Eyes:  Negative for discharge and redness.
Respiratory:  Negative for cough and choking.
Cardiovascular:  Negative for fatigue with feeds and cyanosis.
Gastrointestinal:  Negative for abdominal distention, constipation, diarrhea and vomiting.
Musculoskeletal:  Negative for extremity weakness.
Skin:  Negative for rash.
Neurological:  Negative for seizures and facial asymmetry.
Physical Exam:
Visit Vitals  Temp	37 °C (98.6 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	69.9 cm
Wt	7.9 kg (17 lb 6.7 oz)
HC	40 cm (15.75")
BMI	16.19 kg/m²
BSA	0.39 m²

General: Active, alert, well-appearing.
Head: Brachycephalic, anterior fontanelle is open, soft, and flat
Eyes: lids open, eyes clear without drainage, conjugate gaze
Ears: normally set, no pits and no tags
Nose: nares patent
Oropharynx: palate intact, moist mucous membranes
Chest: no retractions and no tachypnea
Cardiac: acyanotic
Abdomen: soft, non-tender, non-distended, no hepatosplenomegaly, no masses
Musculoskeletal: moves all extremities normally, no deformities or dysmorphic features
Back: spine intact, no tufts, no lesions, no dimples
Skin: clear, no birthmarks
Neurologic: symmetric facies, symmetric Moro, normal tone and reflexes. He does have increased spontaneous movement of the left hand, but he can bring both to midline. I noticed increased tendency to hold the right hand in a fist, but he was able to grasp objects with the right hand when encouraged.
•	EEGREPORT
Comment: This is an abnormal 24-hour continuous video EEG for age due to occasional sharply-contoured slowing and epileptiform discharges noted most prominently over the left temporal or temporo-parietal region as well as independently over the right temporo-parietal or right fronto-temporal areas. These findings are suggestive of cortical dysfunction and epileptogenicity involving the regions described. There are no push button events and no clinical or electrographic seizures are recorded.
Outside studies:
EEG: normal
Assessment:
Stroke type: perinatal ischemic L MCA, ischemic R PCA
Etiology: Perinatal depression
Mini-MACS: 1 - Handles objects easily and successfully. The child may have a slight limitation in performing actions that require precision and coordination between the hands but they can still perform them. The child may need somewhat more adult assistance when handling objects compared to other children of the same age.
GMFCS: Not yet appropriate

The patient is a 5 month old with perinatal arterial ischemic stroke, who is starting to develop a hand preference. He remains at risk for epilepsy and cerebral palsy. I am hopeful he will not develop a need for antiepileptics long term given that most patients with perinatal arterial ischemic stroke do not develop epilepsy.
Plan:
Further workup: reviewed ambulatory EEG result which was done more recently - showed multifocal sharps.
Stroke prevention: None
Rehab: Continue Therapies through ECI, I ordered PT and OT at this visit as well now that he is starting to develop a left hand preference.
Re-imaging: not indicated
Anticonvulsant therapy: Will maintain Keppra at 1.6mL BID. If he is still doing well at the next visit, will start to wean off the medication.