30125
Dx: Perinatal left MCA stroke
The patient is an 11 y.o. female referred for a follow up evaluation in pediatric stroke clinic at the request of her physicians because of a history of Presumed Perinatal Arterial Ischemic Stroke (PPAIS).  History is per mother and review of medical records made available.
She was born without complications at term via repeat c-section. Mother had gestational diabetes, but there were no other maternal problems. At around 6 months of age, mother noticed she was not using her right hand as much as her left. She saw a neurologist, where neuroimaging revealed clear sequelae of a perinatal left MCA stroke. She saw therapists but never had seizures. She is in normal classes at school but has a significant right hemiparesis.
Since last year, she has 'graduated' from OT and has been a happy and productive child. She enjoys school. She does fall intermittently related to dragging her right leg. She discussed stretches with the stroke clinic therapist OT. She would be interested in stroke clinical trials if they arise.
Interim History:
Since last visit, patient has been in excellent health. She has graduated from PT in that time, though she continues to report some difficulties using her right hand beginning at the risk, and reports cortical thumbing. She is otherwise doing well, and has no additional concerns. She is now heavily involved in dance classes in school, and her grades have continued to improve.
Past Medical History
•	Closed torus fracture of lower end of right radius
•	Closed displaced transverse fracture of shaft of right radius
•	Genu valgus, congenital
•	Cerebral palsy
Review of Systems
Constitutional:  Negative for activity change and appetite change.
HENT:  Negative for congestion and drooling.
Eyes:  Negative for pain and discharge.
Respiratory:  Negative for choking and chest tightness.
Cardiovascular:  Negative for chest pain and leg swelling.
Gastrointestinal:  Negative for abdominal distention and abdominal pain.
Endocrine: Negative for cold intolerance and heat intolerance.
Genitourinary:  Negative for difficulty urinating and dysuria.
Musculoskeletal:  Negative for arthralgias and back pain.
Skin:  Negative for pallor and rash.
Neurological:  Negative for dizziness and headaches.
Psychiatric/Behavioral:  Negative for agitation and behavioral problems.
Visit Vitals
BP	96/69 (BP Location: Left arm, Patient Position: Sitting)
Pulse	102
Temp	36.9 °C (98.4 °F) (Temporal)
Ht	1.511 m (4' 11.5")
Wt	59 kg (130 lb)
BMI	25.82 kg/m²
BSA	1.57 m²
GEN: awake and alert, well-nourished, no acute distress
HEENT:  no clefts/pits/masses; no dysmorphic facial features
CHEST: equal chest rise. Breathing non labored
HEART: acyanotic
EXTREMITIES: normal digits, no sacral pits or dimples
SKIN: no lesions, rash, cafe au lait spots
NEUROLOGICAL EXAMINATION:
MS: awake, alert, appropriate for age
CN II-XII:  intact
MOTOR EXAMINATION
Mass:               Normal
Tone:                Increased in right arm and leg, right arm held flexor
Strength:          Decreased in right upper extremity and lower extremity (4/5)
DTRs: 		3/5 right biceps/triceps/patella. 2/5 on left
Sensation:        Intact bilaterally
Gait/Station:    Normal
Cerebellum:     Normal
Results/Data:
Reviewed - normal hypercoagulability studies
Had a prior abnormal CMA (in allscripts)
Outside studies:  I reviewed her prior MRIs. They are consistent with a perinatal stroke
Assessment:
Stroke type: Presumed Perinatal Arterial Ischemic Stroke
Etiology: Like most perinatal strokes, we will not know why this patient had a stroke. Recommended workup for perinatal stroke per the AHA in the NICU is echocardiogram to assess for significant congenital heart defects, MRI, and MRA. She has had an echocardiogram, and further vessel imaging is not indicated given that she is 11.
Mini-MACS: 4 - Handles a limited selection of easily managed objects in simple actions. The actions are performed slowly, with exertion and/or random precision. The child needs constant adult help and support to handle objects.
GMFCS:2
Discussed any ongoing studies for physical therapy/occupational therapy. Presently there are no ongoing studies that this patient can participate in
PSOM -
Right sensorimotor : 1
Left sensorimotor : 0
Language Production: 0
Language comprehension: 0
Comprehension/Behavioral: 0
Total:  1
Plan:
Further workup: not indicated. The thrombophilic labs sent by my colleague are complete and appropriate. These labs are normal. She has not had follow up on her CMA from several years ago, though family is not interested at this time. Will hold off on re-referal.
Stroke prevention: Not indicated. As she doesn't have structural heart defects other than a small PFO, her risk of stroke recurrence is similar to other children (about 1 in 30,000/year).
Rehab: Ok to hold off on OT for now, but ordered PT given her frequent falls.
Re-imaging: Not indicated
Anticonvulsant therapy: Not indicated
Follow up: in clinic in 6 months.
