30127
History of Present Illness:
The patient is a 9 month male with PMH HIE and emergent C-section 2/2 NRFHT. Patient was at another hospital when mother came in for 2d of decreased fetal movement. Found to have NRFHT so emergent C-section done and admitted to NICU for respiratory failure. During NICU stay found to have lip smacking and decerebrate posturing in the BUE with cEEG showing frequent electrographic seizures. Started on PHB with resolution of seizures.  MRI brain in the NICU stay was found to have regional areas of acute ischemia evident primarily in the left hemisphere with complete involvement of the corpus callosum suggestive HIE and L PCA/MCA infarct.
He had a short PEMU stay 2 months later where he was found to have epileptic encephalopathy but no captured seizures. He had his phenobarbital increased and has been following with me since.
Since his last visit with me he has been seeing PT but not OT. Grandmother says he continues to have episodes of head drop lasting about 1-2 seconds followed by immediate return to baseline. It happens 3-4 times per day and has decreased in frequency over the past two months per grandmother.
Birth History: born at 39 weeks, via emergent C-section for NRFHT. Complications during pregnancy/at birth: Mother GBS positive. NICU stay for respiratory distress with total body cooling protocol
Developmental history:
Sat up: Not yet
Stood:  Not yet
Walked: Not yet
Speech: Not yet
Combine 2-3 words: Not yet
Past Medical History: NICU stay for respiratory distress with total body cooling protocol
Past Surgical History: None
Family Medical History: No history of seizures, developmental delay, intellectual disability, or other neurologic disorders.
Social History: Lives with mother and grandmother
Allergies: NKDA
Meds:
-PHB 24 mg BID
Physical Exam:
Vitals: Temp:	37.2 °C (98.9 °F)


General: Active, alert, well-appearing.
Head: normocephalic, anterior fontanelle is open, soft, and flat, no clefts/pits/masses
Eyes: lids open, eyes clear without drainage, conjugate gaze
Ears: normally set, no pits and no tags
Nose: nares patent
Oropharynx: palate intact, moist mucous membranes
Chest: no retractions and no tachypnea
Cardiac: acyanotic
Abdomen: soft, non-tender, non-distended, no hepatosplenomegaly, no masses
Musculoskeletal: moves all extremities normally, no deformities or dysmorphic features
Back: spine intact, no tufts, no lesions, no dimples
Neurologic: symmetric facies, has frequent back arching and non-purposeful arm movements. Coos but no babbling
Reaches for grandmother with both hands.
Patellar reflexes 2+.
Tone seems symmetric throughout
Diagnostics:
Labs:
Newborn screen normal
PHB level: 23.3
Imaging:
MRI brain w/o: Regional areas of acute ischemia evident primarily in the left hemisphere with complete involvement of the corpus callosum. Cortical ribbon like areas of increased T1 signal are evident adjacent to the left greater than right sylvian fissure suggesting some hemorrhagic conversion. No congenital abnormalities evident
Assessment:
Stroke type: perinatal arterial ischemic stroke
Etiology:perinatal depression
Mini-MACS: 2 - Handles most objects, but with somewhat reduced quality and/or speed of achievement. Some actions can only be performed and accomplished with some difficulty and after practice. The child may try an alternative approach, such as using only one hand. The child need adult assistance to handle objects more frequently compared to children at the same age.
Pediatric Stroke Outcome Measure -
Right sensorimotor: 1 - moderate impairment, decreased function
Left sensorimotor: 0.5 - minimal to mild impairment, but normal function
Language Production: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Language Comprehension: 0 - No impairment, normal function
Comprehension/Behavioral: 1 - moderate impairment, decreased function
Total: 2.5
The patient is a 8 month old undecided handed male with PMH HIE and left MCA/PCA infarct and emergent C-section 2/2 NRFHT here for post hospitalization follow up from a NICU stay complicated by seizures and MRI concerning for HIE and stroke.
He had frequent, multifocal epileptiform discharges on EEG and a disorganized background in his PEMU stay, but did not have any clear seizures.  He has not had any unresponsive shaking/jerking episodes, but he has had a couple months of 'head drops' with immediate return to baseline which are unclear if epileptic.
Plan:
Further workup: none at this time, etiology known
Stroke prevention: none
Rehab: OT referral sent
Re-imaging: not indicated
Anticonvulsant therapy: Continue Phenobarbital at 6mg/kg/day, I weight adjusted to 32mg BID with his new weight.
Other Concerns: Head drops - unclear to me if epileptic. I sent a referral for a 23hr EEG to capture the events, as they occur several times per day.
Follow up: 3-4 months in clinic